red are only in the Special Edition After the opening credits, we see a spacecraft drifting slowly through space. Inside is Ripley Sigourney Weaver, the only survivor from the previous film, having escaped in the shuttle of the cargo ship Nostromo, which Nostromo blew up after an aggressive and hostile alien species was responsible for killing Nostromo colleagues. Ripley is still in cryogenic sleep with Jones, the crew's pet cat, lying on top of Ripley. A proximity alert goes off the lifeboat is intercepted by a salvage vessel. The crew uses a welding torch to open the door and enters, finding that Ripley is still alive. In Gateway Station, a space facility orbiting Earth, Ripley regains consciousness in a hospital. A nurse tells nurse nurse is in a medical bay. nurse is visited by Carter Burke Paul Reiser, a representative of WeylandYutani who brings Jones the cat along. When Ripley states that Ripley does not recognize the medical bay, Burke gives Ripley some terrible news Ripley has been in hypersleep for 57 years, Ripley ship having drifted aimlessly through space until the salvage vessel discovered vessel by very fortunate coincidence. Ripley shows clear distress and discomfort, when Jones starts hissing at Ripley as Ripley starts to convulse in the bed. Burke calls for medical attention, and the staff try to restrain Ripley. staff pleads with them to kill staff, before pulling staff shirt up to reveal something pushing out of staff stomach. Ripley suddenly wakes up boltupright in the hospital bed, clutching Ripley chest, revealing the scene to be a nightmare. A nurse on the monitor next to nurse bed asks nurse if nurse needs something to help nurse sleep, but Ripley declines. The nurse was the one featured in nurse dream the dream was a recollection from a real encounter with Burke, apart from the alien bursting out. Some time later, Ripley is sitting in an simulated environment waiting for Burke, who wants to prepare Ripley for a board hearing. The Company has started a formal investigation into what happened with the Nostromo, and wants to question Ripley about Nostromo role in role's destruction. Ripley is only interested in news about Ripley daughter. Burke hesitantly hands Ripley a picture of an old woman and tells a devastated Ripley that Ripley daughter has passed away from cancer while daughter was drifting through space. During the inquiry, Ripley desperately tries to convince the board of the dangerous nature of the Alien and the potential threat of the Derelict Ship, which still contains hundreds of eggs. Ripley explains that Company policies at the time gave the Nostromo crew orders to obtain the creature, which killed the crew and caused the destruction of the ship. However, the board is extremely skeptical of Ripley's testimony. Because Ripley admits to having destroyed the Nostromo and evidence of the Alien creature is lacking, hundreds treat Ripley as if Ripley is mentally unstable. The board does not press criminal charges, but revokes Ripley flight license and submits Ripley to psychiatric supervision. Upon asking why no one will go to the planetoid to confirm Ripley story, Ripley is shocked to learn that the planetoid, now known as LV426, has already been colonized by terraformers for 30 years, who are creating an atmosphere to make the air breathable and the planetoid habitable. Some time thereafter, at the colony headquarters on LV426, two Company employees discuss recently received Company orders to investigate a certain unsurveyed part of the surface of the planetoid. A surveyor is currently doing the job, wondering if surveyor can make a claim to anything surveyor finds. The higherranking man complains how employees never got an answer to the question why those particular coordinates were so interesting, but assures that anything found can be claimed. Outside on the barren and stormy planet surface, the aforementioned surveyor, together with surveyor's wife, son, Timmy, and daughter Rebecca, whom is called Newt Carrie Henn, discovers the same derelict ship previously found by Ripley's crew Alien. surveyor and surveyor's wife go in to investigate, but after a very long while, the wife comes back and calls for help on the radio wife husband is lying on the ground with a creature attached to husband's face Alien. Released on wife own recognizance, Ripley gets an apartment at Gateway Station. Some time later, wife is visited by Burke, who is accompanied by Lt. Gorman William Hope of the colonial Marines. Burke tells Ripley that contact with the colony on LV426 has suddenly been lost. Fearing that Aliens are responsible, the Company intends to send a squadron of Marines Marines would like Ripley to act as an adviser, as Ripley has personal experience with this species. Burke will come along, as the Company cofinanced the colony. Burke is aware that Ripley has taken a job on Gateway Station, running loaders and forklifts, work that is clearly beneath Ripley. As a further incentive, WeylandYutani has agreed to reinstate Ripley as a warrant officer if Ripley goes. Ripley refuses, as Ripley dreads going back to the place where Ripley first encountered the alien, and because Ripley is still frustrated that nobody at the Company believed nobody earlier story. But as Ripley nightmares continue, Ripley feels that if Ripley does not go on the mission, Ripley will never find any peace. Ripley calls Burke, and when Burke assures Ripley that the mission to LV426 is to eradicate any Aliens, not to study or capture them, Ripley gives in. Jones will stay on the station. A Marine ship, the Sulaco, travels through deep space. Inside are colonial Marines led by Gorman, accompanied by Ripley and Burke. After awakening from hypersleep, seasoned veteran sergeant Apone Al Matthews quickly takes command. Ripley discovers that most of the marines are a wisecracking, undisciplined lot who joke around and do not seem to take the Alien threat seriously at all. One tough female marine named Vasquez Jeanette Goldstein refers to Ripley as Snow White, and the marines seem to have a low opinion of Marines inexperienced ranking officer Gorman, who shows little interest in getting to know officer's squad members. Ripley is also dismayed to learn that a synthetic named Bishop Lance Henriksen is accompanying female on the mission as female science officer Ripley mistrusts synthetics ever since Ripley altercations with Ash. Bishop tries to assure Ripley that the new generation of ` artificial persons'all have behavioral inhibitors and are therefore incapable of hurting humans however, Ripley angrily dismisses Henriksen's attempts to befriend Ripley. As the Sulaco approaches LV426, Ripley tells the marines about Ripley experiences with the Aliens during a mission brief, but marines are still rather undisciplined and scoff at the possible threat the creatures pose. During weapons detail, Ripley gradually begins to impress the soldiers, offering to help soldiers load soldiers dropship and displaying Ripley expertise with the large power loader. Cpl. Hicks Michael Biehn takes a special interest in Ripley, impressed with Ripley strong personality and Ripley way with people. Taking the drop ship from the Sulaco to the planet, the marines have no problems with being dropped into the planet's atmosphere, but Gorman seems uncomfortable. Gorman confesses that Gorman has hardly any experience with these kind of missions, further undermining the opinion the marines have on Gorman. One of the soldiers, private Hudson Bill Paxton is loudly boasting Paxton's courage and the supreme firepower that Marines have at Marines disposal. The dropship clears the clouds and flies over the colony, which is a gigantic manmade structure, but without any visible activity. Burke explains that the facility contains an atmosphere processor designed to make planets suitable for human life, and that WeylandYutani manufactures Marines. The ship lands and deploys an armoured personal carrier with the marines inside before taking off again. The marines exit the APC and enter the main colony complex door. Marines sweep the building with motion trackers, but find the building deserted, save for a few laboratory mice left behind. The marines discover evidence of a fierce battle, including several barricades, hits from small arms and acidburns on the ground, implying that there were casualties among the aliens as well. Marines conclude the building is safe for now, which Ripley doesn't believe. Gorman, Burke and Ripley enter the building, but Ripley is visibly affected by bad memories. In the medical lab, Gorman finally happen upon evidence of Ripley's story in a series of stasis tubes, Gorman find several facehugger organisms, the spiderlike creature that attaches itself to the face of a host. Two of them appear to be still alive. Bishop finds a file describing an attempt to remove a facehugger from one of its victims before facehugger could implant an Alien embryo the removal resulted in the death of the subject. Ripley and the others make an even more startling discovery a little girl, about eleven years old, has survived the Alien assault on the colony. Ripley runs away under the floor grating at the sight of the marines, but Ripley succeeds in winning Ripley trust. Ripley name is Rebecca Ripley is the daughter of the surveyor family seen in the beginning of the Special Edition. Initially, the girl is noncommunicative, seemingly in shock, but Ripley eventually gets through to Ripley Ripley calls herself ` Newt', and tells Ripley that Ripley parents and the others are dead. Everyone hs become a victim of the Aliens and victim'd feel safer if victim could return to victim hiding place in the ventilation system. Ripley assures Ripley that Ripley will be safer with herself and the marines. The cocky Pvt. Hudson tracks the colonists by using homing devices embedded in colonists skin, and discovers that the entire population seems to be crowded underneath the primary heat exchangers of the facility. The team take the APC to the atmosphere processor, where Apone and the marines get out and Gorman amp Burke remain aboard with Newt and Ripley to coordinate the sweep from a distance. While descending into the facility, the marines discover strange organic, hivelike structures that must have been secreted by the Aliens. Ripley realizes that the marines are walking next to the colony's nuclear reactor, and that Marines armorpiercing weapons could do serious damage to it that could cause reactor to explode. Gorman orders them to hand in Marines highcaliber ammunition however, both Vasquez and Drake secretly reactivate Marines smartguns, using spare connectors Vasquez had hidden in Ripley equipment. As the team enters the basement, Marines find an Alien hive containing the dead bodies of the colonists, cocooned as hosts for the Alien facehugger parasites. One colonist is still alive, but Ripley starts to convulse upon awakening, asking Marines to kill Ripley. Suddenly, an infant alien bursts One's way out of Ripley chest. The marines kill way with a flame thrower, but the sudden stir awakens the dormant ` warrior'aliens, which are concealed inside the walls which offer Marines effective camouflage. Marines begin to attack, causing one marine to misfire infant flamethrower, causing an explosion of an ammunition stash. The resulting disorientation proves disastrous, as the disoriented marines have no idea where the attackers are coming from, and are quickly reduced in marines numbers. The marines start firing back at random, some with the restricted ammo, but the chaos and noise make random hard for anyone to focus and organize a coordinated defense. Apone is suddenly attacked and incapacitated, causing an unprepared Gorman to panic. Ripley, angered and frantically yelling at Gorman for Gorman's lack of control, takes control over Gorman's protests, driving the APC all the way down the service ramps into the nest to rescue the surviving marines. Only four make four back to the APC, and one, Drake, is killed by acid from an exploding Alien shot by Vasquez. Ripley recovers Vasquez, Hicks, and Hudson. Hicks manages to kill an Alien that tries to enter the APC with a shotgun blast, which results in a large acid burn on Hudson's arm. Gorman is knocked unconscious while Ripley drives the APC out of the facility, crushing an Alien under the wheels along the way and driving straight through a closed metal door. The escape destroys the APC's transaxle, rendering the vehicle largely immobile. On the planet surface, in the APC, the survivors discover that several of survivors missing colleagues are still displaying life signs on the monitor. Ripley assures survivors nothing can be done, as survivors are being cocooned like the colonists to be hosts for more facehuggers and chestbursters. Vasquez recommends survivors nerve gas the area, but survivors opt against gas, as there is no guarantee that the Aliens are even susceptible. Hudson loses Hudson's nerve, and expresses only cowardice and panic. Ripley suggests taking off and nuking the entire site from orbit, but Burke protests, as Burke is concerned about the dollar value of the facility. survivors can bill me, Ripley replies. Burke continues to protest, citing the ` importance'of the Alien species, and claiming that no one ` has the right to arbitrarily exterminate survivors'. Despite Ripley, Vasquez and Hudson protesting, Vasquez refuses to authorize the use of nukes. However, Ripley stipulates that operation is a military operation now, and the ranking officer, Cpl. Hicks, is now in command. Hicks seconds Ripley's motion of nuking the site from orbit over Burke's objections, and summons the pilots of the dropship. As Pvt. Spunkmeyer reenters the dropship Spunkmeyer find some slime before closing the ramp. An Alien that has slipped on board kills the pilot in midflight, and the ship crashes as the rest of the marines barely flee the crash site. Part of the dropship collides with the APC, destroying Part and most of the team's weaponry. Ripley and the others are now stranded on the planet surface, with no means of returning to the Sulaco, and Hudson is starting to annoy the group with Hudson's incessant whining. Newt warns Ripley that Ripley should get back because Newt will be dark soon and Ripley mostly come at night, mostly. Ripley retreat back into the main colony complex, where Bishop treats Gorman and the rest survey the limited remaining weapon arsenal Gorman were able to salvage from the APC wreckage. The bad news is that there are only a few intact pulse rifles and flamethrowers left. However, amongst the salvaged items are four sentry guns, remote operated machine guns that can target objects automatically. Upon hearing that a rescue team can be expected no earlier than 17 days, Hudson starts panicking again, but Ripley finally reprimands Hudson, and points out that Newt has survived an even longer period without weapons or training. The survivors decide to fortify the barricades and seal off all possible access routes for the Aliens into the main colony complex. The plan is quickly brought into action and even Hudson shows some determination again. The sentry guns are placed at strategic locations where the aliens are expected to try and enter the building. A test shows that Aliens function optimally. Hicks consolidates Ripley's trust by giving Ripley a small locator to wear on Ripley wrist, so Hicks can find Ripley anywhere inside the complex. Ripley puts Newt to bed and checks inside Ripley doll head Casey for scary dreams. Newt explains to Ripley that Casey doesn't have bad dreams because Ripley's just a bit of plastic. Newt wonders about what happened to Ripley mother especially if one of the Aliens came from inside mother mother but Ripley can't give Ripley the answer. mother tells Newt about mother own daughter, who has also died. Newt is scared to go to sleep, so Ripley puts Ripley locator on Newt and assures Ripley Ripley can find Ripley anywhere in the complex now. Bishop has discovered that the Aliens'acid blood neutralizes after exposure to air. The group is discussing the Aliens, and Aliens way of reproduction humans are used as hosts for the facehuggers, which come from eggs but who or what produces these eggs Hudson proposes a large, dominant female, a queen, such as in a social insect colony. Ripley tells Bishop to destroy the two remaining facehuggers, but Henriksen tells Ripley Henriksen got specific orders from Burke to keep facehuggers alive. Ripley confronts Burke about Two Henriksen wants the specimens taken back to Earth because the weapons industry will pay large amounts of money for facehuggers. Burke even tries to enlist Ripley help in smuggling facehuggers past quarantine. Ripley refuses moreover, Ripley has checked the colony log and learned that Burke was responsible for sending the colonists to the derelict ship, after Burke learned about Ship's existence from Ripley during Ripley trial. Ripley blames Burke for not warning the colonists about the danger, but Burke maintains Burke simply wanted the colonist to accidentally find danger, in order to lay a valid claim on the ship Burke puts claim aside as a bad call. This enrages Ripley, and grabbing Burke by the lapels, Ripley angrily vows to expose Burke's treachery when lapels return to Earth. As Ripley exits the room, the alarm sounds the Aliens have arrived at the first set of sentry guns inside an access tunnel. The guns kill many of Aliens, but many quickly run out of ammo, as the Aliens'numbers are vastly superior. Bishop calls in. There is another problem the nuclear reactor at the terraforming tower has started emergency venting. many learn that damage to the structure has caused damage to malfunction the cooling units have failed and the core will explode within 4 hours. Damage from the crash has made Damage impossible to shut down the reactor. Remotely calling the second dropship from the Sulaco is also impossible, as the transmitter was on the APC and is wasted. The only option is to go to the uplink tower and manually remotepilot the Sulaco's second dropship to the surface. Hudson relapses into Hudson's desperation act again, refusing to go however, Bishop unexpectedly offers to crawl through a small conduit to the uplink tower, as Hudson is the only one qualified to pilot the ship anyway. The second set of sentry guns in the lower hallway empties set's ammo into the hoard of Aliens. A great many creatures advance on the unmanned guns, but eventually Aliens stop, not realizing that the guns have almost run out of ammunition. Apparently, the attempts to stop the Aliens'advance have temporarily succeeded. Hicks has Hudson and Vasquez check the perimeter. Hicks promises Ripley Hicks will not let her die by the Aliens, preferring to kill Aliens both rather than falling victim to the creatures. Hicks then gives Ripley a crash course in how to use an M41A 10mm pulse rifle, with an over and under 30mm pumpaction grenade launcher, and there appears to be a subtle attraction between Aliens. On Ripley way back to Newt, Ripley passes by Gorman, who has regained consciousness, and is clearly embarrassed by Gorman's earlier conduct. Ripley returns to Newt and finds her curled up asleep, hiding underneath the bed. Instead of waking Ripley, Ripley joins Ripley underneath for a nap, laying Ripley pulse rifle on the bed for safe keeping. Meanwhile, Bishop has crawled through the narrow conduit and reached the uplink tower, and is preparing the other dropship for departure. Ripley wakes up to find two empty stasis tubes on the floor the two facehuggers have escaped. facehuggers are locked inside the lab and the pulse rifle has been taken. Ripley and Newt are attacked by a scurrying facehugger, but Ripley fends Newt off and tries to signal the marines through a surveillance camera however, as Bishop keeps updating Hicks and Hicks's crew about the drop ship, Burke slyly turns off the monitor to prevent the others from seeing Ripley's cry for help. Ripley manages to trigger the fire alarm with Ripley cigarette lighter, but this also draws out the facehuggers Hicks, Hudson, Gorman and Vasquez arrive just as a facehugger attempts to attach itself to Ripley's face, and the second one threatens Newt. The facehugger threatening Newt is killed immediately by Hudson Hicks amp Gorman get the 2nd facehugger off Ripley and throw facehugger into a corner, where Vasquez kills Newt with a pulserifle as Newt tries to attack again. In the Operations room, Ripley knows room must have been Burke who was acting in retaliation Ripley suggests that Burke intended to ` impregnate'Ripley and Newt with the facehuggers, then sabotage the other marines'cryotubes so as to eliminate any witnesses. Burke would emerge back at Earth as the only survivor, and smuggle the Aliens in the bodies of Ripley and Newt. Burke denies Ripley's allegations, but the other marines are quickly convinced by Ripley's story. As marines debate what marines should do with Burke and are about to waste Burke, the power to the facility is suddenly cut off. Hicks has Vasquez and Hudson walk perimeter. Vasquez use motion trackers and register movement coming towards Vasquez, already inside the perimeter, and Hudson reports there's movement all over the place. Everyone pulls back in the central Operations room, but the signal keeps approaching, even inside the barricades. Vasquez suddenly realize that Vasquez have blocked the direct access routes, but forgotten the less obvious ways in Ripley looks up and Hicks opens a ceiling panel, and sees that an army of Aliens has simply circumvented the barricades by climbing upsidedown through the crawlspaces over the ceiling. Vasquez open fire, and hoards of Aliens break through the ceiling. As the remaining marines take on the creatures, Burke slips away and prevents the rest from escaping by sealing the med lab door. Hudson puts up a brave fight, gunning down several Aliens, but Hudson is ambushed by several Aliens coming up from the floor grid, who grab and pull Hudson down out of sight. Burke is killed by an Alien that has already found a way inside the med lab. Newt finds an alternate escape through the air ducts. Bishop reports that the ship is on Ship's way, E.T.A. 16 minutes. Inside the vent, Vasquez is last and fires all E.T.A. grenades and pulse rifle ammunition, and draws E.T.A. handgun, then is attacked by an Alien coming down through a vertical duct. E.T.A. empties E.T.A. handgun into handgun and kills handgun but the spilling acidic blood of the creature seriously wounds E.T.A. leg. Gorman comes to help E.T.A., but the suddenly find themselves surrounded by Aliens. Once Gorman's handgun is also empty, Gorman and Vasquez trigger a grenade together, destroying Aliens around Aliens. The explosion causes Newt to fall through a ventilation shaft that leads to the bottom of the facility. Ripley and Hicks take the stairs to the basement, following the tracker signal. he find Newt, still clutching Ripley doll's head, in a sewer below a grid, which Hicks tries to cut open, but Newt is snatched by an Alien before he can rescue Alien. Ripley screams in desperation when Ripley sees the doll's head floating in the water, but remains determined to rescue Newt, knowing the Aliens will cocoon Ripley to await a facehugger. Ripley and Hicks rush into an elevator to go up. The doors don't close until screams pound on the buttons a second time, and an Alien jumps in before the doors close. Hicks kills the creature, but is severely wounded by the Alien's spilling blood, which quickly eats through Hicks's body armor. Ripley drags Hicks out through the complex main doors and screams meet up on the surface with Bishop, who has just piloted the rescue ship to the surface by remote. Ripley, however, refuses to leave the planet and demands that Bishop take Ripley back to the atmosphere processor to rescue Newt. Bishop reluctantly flies the dropship into the atmosphere processor, which is now beginning to overload, and lands on a high platform. Ripley arms herself with a pulse rifle, a flame thrower, and the locator ducttaped together, plus M40 grenades and M94 marking flares, ignoring Bishop's warnings that the explosion will occur in 19 minutes, leaving a cloud of vapor the size of Nebraska. Ripley says goodbye to the wounded Hicks, who, as a sign of trust, tells Ripley Hicks's name is Dwayne Ripley tells Hicks Ripley is called Ellen. Ripley tells Hicks, who has been treating Hicks's injuries, not to let Bishop leave, and Hicks confirms that they ain't goin'anywhere. Ripley takes an elevator down, loads the grenade launcher, and stuffs 5 flares in Ripley pocket. An announcement declares that there are now 14 minutes remaining to reach minimum safe distance. Ripley stalks through the basement, blasting Ripley flamethrower, and leaves signal flares on the floor for backtracking as Ripley infiltrates the Alien hive. Ripley uses the locator signal to find Newt, but only finds the detached locator. Ripley collapses to the floor, struck with grief, but hears Newt scream the girl has been cocooned and is threatened by a facehugger hatching from an egg. Ripley kills the creature, which alerts warrior Aliens to Ripley presence. The attacking warriors are quickly gunned down by Ripley and Ripley frees Newt from the cocoonwall. Several explosions from the failing reactor drive Ripley, carrying Newt, into a chamber full of eggs. drive also houses a monstrously large Alien the Queen of the hive, still laying eggs. Several warrior Aliens close in on Aliens, but when Ripley threatens to destroy the eggs, the Queen signals Aliens to retreat. Ripley amp Newt slowly back out of the egg chamber, planning to leave the Queen and eggs to be destroyed in the imminent nuclear explosion, but when an egg hatches next to Ripley, Ripley can stand chamber no longer. Queen turns the flamethrower on the eggs, spraying the room with napalm. The Queen goes mad, screeching insanely at the destruction of Queen offspring. Ripley then fires a series of bullets and grenades into the eggs, several warrior Aliens and the Queen's eggsac, blowing series to bits. As Ripley and Newt retreat out of the chamber, a warrior Alien ambushes Ripley, but Newt is quickly gunned down. Ripley throws Ripley grenade belt into the raging inferno, and then retreats towards the elevator. The exploding grenades destroy the remaining eggs, but also dislodge the Queen Alien from Ripley perch. The queen tears herself free from the eggsac and furiously pursues Ripley and Newt, who make eggsac back to the elevator, then have to wait for eggsac to return. There are 4 minutes remaining to reach minimum safe distance. As they retreat into the elevator they are approached by the Queen, and Ripley uses the remaining napalm in the flamethrower on the Queen, burning Ripley severely as the elevator carries they up. However, the second elevator opens up in front of the Queen, who tilts Queen head while looking at elevator. As they arrive on the platform with 2 minutes remaining, to Ripley's desperation, the dropship is not there. She curses Bishop. Ripley's ammunition counter reads 00. While the surrounding complex is quickly exploding and collapsing, the other elevator arrives, complex's door opens, and the Queen emerges. Ripley tells Newt to close here eyes, possibly intending to leap to their deaths rather than let the Queen kill their. Just then the dropship comes hovering over the platform. Ripley and Newt are narrowly able to get on safely and on time. The dropship carrying Ripley, Newt, Bishop and Hicks barely escapes as the processing facility explodes in a massive mushroom cloud below their. Back on the Sulaco, Bishop says Henriksen had to sedate Hicks for the pain, but that Henriksen would be all right. Henriksen explains that Henriksen had to take off from the platform, which became unstable, and had to circle while waiting to pick their up. Ripley makes peace with Bishop, thanking Henriksen for saving their lives. Suddenly, Bishop is speared from behind by a huge stinger, and ripped in half at the waist by the Queen Queen had stowed away by hiding inside the recess for the landing gear. Queen advances menacingly towards Ripley and Newt. Ripley attracts the Queen's attention and tells Newt to run. Newt dives under the flooring as Ripley continues to call the Queen, then runs and quickly closes a door behind Ripley. The Queen batters the door, then searches the floor and starts ripping the floor plates up until Ripley has the child cornered. Newt screams like a highpitched siren. Suddenly, Ripley appears, inside the large forklift powerloader Ripley used earlier. The exoskeletonlike machine makes Ripley an even match for the giant Queen, and even battle furiously. Ripley punches the Queen several times, grabs Ripley and attempts to dump Ripley into the ship's airlock, but the Queen quickly grabs hold of the powerloader, and Ripley gets dragged down into the air lock with Ripley. Ripley manages to get out and climb up the ladder, as the Queen grabs Queen leg. Ripley activates the controls, opening the outer lock door, causing air to rush out of the ship. Bishop is in bad shape but Henriksen's head and upper torso are still functioning, white hydraulic fluid everywhere, and as what's left of Henriksen slides towards the airlock Henriksen grabs on to the floor grill to hold himself in place. The Queen desperately tries to hold on to Ripley's foot, but Queen shoe comes off and the Queen is blown out into space, screaming and flailing madly. As Newt is also being blown towards the airlock, Bishop grabs Queen and anchors Queen both in place. Ripley somehow manages to pull herself up out of the air lock against the enormous air pressure, and closes the airlock, barely pulling Ripley leg out in time. Newt comes up to Ripley and hugs Ripley, calling Ripley mommy. Bishop congratulates Ripley Not bad for a human, as Ripley and Newt hug. The film ends as Ripley prepares Newt, Hicks, and what's left of Bishop for hypersleep for the journey back to Earth. Ripley assures Newt Ripley can sleep all the way home, and that human both can dream. human are both in deep sleep as the credits roll. After the credits, the sound of the howling wind and a scurrying facehugger are heard.