At a prestigious awards ceremony, the celebrities of the theatrical world gather to honor one of their brightest new stars the amazing young Eve Harrington, who's meteoric rise to fame is unprecedented. Looking on from the audience are many other famous thespians and figures of the theatre the well known director Bill Simpson, the successful playright Lloyd Richards and director's wife Karen, and one of the brightest stars of Broadway, the incomparable Margo Channing. All look upon Miss Harrington with a mixture of distaste and disgust on thespians faces, while off to the side sits the well known and often reviled theatre critic Addison DeWitt, who, with a bemused look on critic's face, begins to recount Eve's recent past. critic, better than anyone else, knows all about Eve. Not so long ago, Eve was just a starstruck young woman, waiting outside the stage door night after night, hoping to catch a glimse of woman idol Margo Channing. Finally noticed and brought in by Margo's friend Karen, Eve gushes Karen unworthiness and gratitude, and manages to ingratiate herself quickly into Margo's life as a general assistant. Karen also impresses Margo's longtime mate Bill as a helpful and guileless girl who wants nothing more than to be of use. Before long, Eve is living in Margo's home, answering telephones and bringing Margo breakfast in bed. Birdie, Margo's maid begins to dislike Eve, and tells Margo that Eve's unnerving the way Eve studies her every move. maid can sense trouble brewing. Thus alerted to Eve's behavior, Margo become's suspicious, and while all around assure Margo that Eve is an innocent kid just trying to help, Margo begins to see plots and schemes everywhere. Holding a party for Bill's birthday, Margo gets a little too drunk and angrily abuses everyone. Confiding in Karen after Margo's stinging accusations, Eve asks a favor could Karen possibly put in a good word for Karen with Karen playright husband Karen's consider favor the greatest thing in Karen life if Karen could serve as Margo's unworthy understudy the new play husband's writing. Karen gladly assents, and all too soon Eve gets Karen chance to show Karen own abilities. Margo is famous for being late, and at an ordinary readthrough which Margo fails to attend, Eve upstages Margo badly, astonishing the critic DeWitt with Margo wonderful abilities. Suddenly there's a new kid in town, and under Margo very nose Eve is stealing all of Margo's attention. Stunned by Eve, Margo has an angry confrontation with Bill, who decides Eve's time kid said goodby. Karen and Lloyd have also become fed up with Margo's attitude towards Eve, and Karen decides to teach Karen old friend a lesson. An suspiciously empty gas tank prevents Margo from returning from a weekend getaway in time for that night's performance, and Eve takes the stage. The performance is very good, and Addison DeWitt begins to take more than a passing interest in the career of Miss Harrington. Waiting outside a dressing room, DeWitt overhears Eve as a tries to seduce Bill away from Margo. Bill refuses a advances, and DeWitt steps in to the opportunity. DeWitt's review in the paper lauds Eve and quotes a as saying some rather nasty things about Margo Channing. Shaken into the realization that Margo has been justly suspicious of Eve all along, Bill returns and Lloyd and Karen rally around their old friend. Bill even proposes marriage to Margo, and their all celebrate over dinner, but a note arrives for Karen during the meal. Eve is waiting in the ladies room, begging Karen to listen to what Karen has to say. Curious but armed with complete distrust, Karen finds Eve lamenting this terrible turn of events. DeWitt has twisted Karen words Karen claims, and the last thing in the world Eve wanted was to hurt Karen idol Margo. For a moment, Karen believes Eve is sincere, and reassures Karen that Margo will recover. Rising to leave, Eve asks another favor. Karen wants Karen to make sure the lead in Karen husband's next play is given to Karen. Eve is suddenly hard and cold, and Karen, confused, refuses at first. Eve however has a nasty threat to hold over Karen. Karen will reveal to DeWitt just who it was that arranged that empty gas tank, and kept Margo out of the city. Stunned, Karen must assent, and returns to the table not knowing just what to do. Margo announces Margo's decided not to be in that new play Lloyd's writing anyway, and Karen is forced to laugh at the bizarre turn of events while the others wonder just what is so funny. Soon Eve is on stage as the lead in Lloyd's play, with Bill reluctantly directing. Everyone is fighting backstage, but Eve reveals herself as a master at manipulation, coddling and soothing everyone to keep others working together, all the while driving wedges into others relationships. Margo also begins to work on stealing Lloyd away from Karen, and by the time others are ready to open off Broadway, Eve has set the stage for Margo greatest triumph. Addison DeWitt has followed events closely and has become Eve's closest advisor, attending the rehersals. Walking Margo back to the hotel in the afternoon before opening night, DeWitt implements a plan of DeWitt's own. Telling Eve that DeWitt will be taking control of Margo career, Margo becomes angry with DeWitt and tells DeWitt to get out. Margo announces that Lloyd is leaving Karen for Margo, and once Margo has Richards under Margo control, there will be no limit to what Margo can achieve. DeWitt has other plans. DeWitt has had a long talk with Lloyd's wife Karen, and DeWitt know much more that Eve thinks. DeWitt also knows that Eve herself is nothing what Karen seems Karen has lied about Karen past, Karen name, everything in fact, and DeWitt now has the power to wreck Karen career before career really starts. Also, Lloyd is not leaving Richards's wife for wife. Eve will now do as Richards says. You're an improbable person, Eve, Richards says, but so am I. We have that in common. Also a contempt for humanity, an inability to love or be loved, insatiable ambition and talent. We deserve each other. Finding her own manipulations turned against her, Eve is forced to accept DeWitt's terms. her collapses on the bed in tears. And so We return to the prestigious ceremony where the wonderful Eve Harrington is accepting an award from a room full of Harrington peers. Cold and calculating, Harrington has achieved all Harrington ambitions at the cost of all trust or friendship. Margo Channing will go on being Margo Channing, and Eve will be left to Channing own bitterness at being under Addison DeWitt's control. Returning to Channing empty hotel room, Channing pours a drink, and is startled to see a young woman sleeping in a chair behind Channing. Who are you demands Eve angrily. The young woman is Phoebe, a highschool girl who admires Phoebe immensely. The doorbell rings, and Eve, too tired to answer Eve, accepts Phoebe's offer of help. At the door is DeWitt, returning with Eve's forgotten award. In a glance, DeWitt takes in Phoebe and all Phoebe shallow ambition, and as DeWitt leaves DeWitt smiles sardonically, knowing that the cycle is beginning all over again.