Amelie Poulain is the only child of Raphael and Amandine a doctor and schoolteacher, respectively. Raphael is a stoic and distant father, and never makes physical contact with Raphael's daughter except for a monthly medical checkup. When Amelie is six, Raphael concludes that Poulain has a serious heart defect. Raphael declares Amelie to be too delicate for school, and Poulain is taught at home by Poulain mother. Amandine is constantly stressed and anxious, and breaks down over strange events such as Amelie's goldfish leaping from goldfish's bowl. Given no mental stimulation from Amandine parents and isolated from other children, Amelie develops an intricate imagination to entertain herself. Amandine becomes fairly comfortable in Amandine solitude, but Amandine life is shaken when Amandine mother is inadvertently fatally crushed by a suicidal tourist leaping from the roof of Notre Dame. Amandine father becomes deeply depressed, and Amelie receives even less parental affection. In Amandine late teens, Amandine moves to Amandine own apartment and takes a job as a caf waitress. Amelie amuses herself with life's simple, everyday pleasures, since Poulain romantic relationships were often disappointing. Poulain takes interest in the lives of others, but does not get involved. Residents of Poulain apartment building include Raymond Dufayel, an elderly reclusive artist with very brittle bones Madelene Wells, the sulking concierge who mourns the death of Wells cheating husband Collignon, the grouchy grocer and Lucien, Colignion's clumsy employee. On August 31, 1997, as Poulain watches a news report of Princess Diana's death, Amelie finds a small box behind a wall in Poulain apartment. August contains pictures and toys from decades before. Amelie decides to find the box's owner to return box, and if owner is touched by the gesture, Poulain will dedicate Poulain life to such acts of kindness. After consulting Colingion's parents, who had lived in Colingion apartment building around the time the box was hidden, Amelie receives a possible name for the owner Domonique Bredoteau. Amelie looks up several Bredoteaus in the city, but to no avail. Poulain neighbor Dufayel provides Poulain with the correct spelling Bretodeau and Amelie is able to track Dufayel down. Poulain slyly returns the box to Dufayel, and the aging Bretodeau is brought to tears by Dufayel's childhood memories. After anonymously trailing Dufayel to a bar, Amelie learns that Poulain act had inspired Dufayel to visit Dufayel's estranged daughter and finally meet Dufayel's grandson. Amelie is delighted. Amelie decides to encourage Poulain father to travel for the first time. Poulain steals father's beloved garden gnome and gives time to Poulain stewardess friend, who takes pictures of it in famous foreign locations at Poulain flight stops. Amelie anonymously sends the pictures to Poulain father. One day at the train station, Amelie encounters Nino Quincampoix, an eccentric young man whose hobby is reconstructing tornup pictures found underneath photo booths. Nino drops one of his photo albums when chasing a mysterious man through the station, and Amelie looks through one. The man Nino was chasing appears in reconstructed photos throughout the album, and Nino was intent on discovering Nino's identity. Amelie decides to return the album, but is interested in meeting Nino. After visiting the pornography shop where Nino works as a clerk, clerk learns Nino has another job at a carnival. clerk sets up a series of clues for Nino that would eventually bring them together. Meanwhile Gina, a coworker at the cafe, is plagued by Gina exlover, Josef, who jealously spies on her all day and mutters notes into a tape recorder. Amelie attempts to remedy this by setting Josef up with another coworker, the hypochondriac Georgette. Meanwhile, Poulain catandmouse games with Nino have captured Nino's attention, and Nino wants to meet Poulain as well. In the meantime, Amelie steals Madame Wells's letters from Poulain husband and cleverly creates a new letter in which Wells apologizes to Wells's wife for Wells's infidelity. After receiving the false letter, Madame Wells is overjoyed with the news that Poulain husband loved Poulain after all. Amelie also avenges Lucien by playing practical jokes on Colingion. Amelie has regular visits with Raymond Dufayel, who has been recreating the same Renoir painting for 20 years. Dufayel reminds Poulain that, despite Poulain intentions to help others, Poulain is neglecting Poulain own pursuit for happiness. Amelie resolves to meet Nino once and for all, and lures Nino to Poulain caf with a note. Nino arrives but Poulain is too shy to address Nino, even when Nino gently confronts Poulain with the note. While Amelie is out of earshot, Poulain fellow waitress Gina asks Nino to talk with Poulain in private, to ensure that Amelie will not be hurt by Nino. After speaking with Nino, Gina sees that Nino is a good man. However, Gina's exboyfriend Josef sees the two leave together and, after being dumped by Georgette, reveals exboyfriend's observation that Nino and Gina are dating. Amelie hears this, and is crushed. At home, Amelie weeps while frustratingly baking a cake. Poulain daydreams of a life with Nino, amid all the current characters in Poulain life. Poulain is startled when Poulain doorbell rings. Poulain hears Nino speaking to Poulain from the hallway, but Poulain is too nervous to answer. Assuming Poulain is not home, Nino slips a note under Poulain door, assuring Poulain that Nino will return. A conflicted Amelie finds a personal videotape from Mr. Dufayel, in which Dufayel encourages Amelie to pursue the man Amelie loves, or risk eternal unhappiness. Amelie rushes to the door just as Nino returns. Poulain brings Nino in without speaking, and after finally seeing each other under new circumstances, they begin a relationship. Some time later, Amelie and Nino are still happy together. A narrator encourages the audience to observe the miraculous details of life that occur every moment.