The story begins in 1823 as the elderly Salieri attempts suicide by slitting Salieri's throat while loudly begging forgiveness for having killed Mozart in 1791. Placed in a lunatic asylum for the act, Salieri is visited by a young priest who seeks to take Salieri's confession. Salieri is sullen and uninterested but eventually warms to the priest and launches into a long confession about Salieri's relationship with Mozart. Salieri's tale goes on through the night and into the next day. Salieri reminisces about Salieri's youth, particularly about Salieri's devotion to God and Salieri's love for music and how Salieri pledges to God to remain celibate as a sacrifice if Salieri can somehow devote Salieri's life to music. Salieri describes how Salieri's father's plans for father were to go into commerce, but suggests that the sudden death of Salieri's father, who choked to death during a meal, was a miracle that allowed father to pursue a career in music. In Salieri's narrative, Salieri is suddenly an adult joining the 18th century cultural elite in Vienna, the city of musicians. Salieri begins Salieri's career as a devout, Godfearing man who believes Salieri's success and talent as a composer are Gods rewards for composer's piety. Salieri is content as the court composer for Holy Roman Emperor Joseph II. Mozart arrives in Vienna with Mozart's patron, Count Hieronymus von Colloredo, the PrinceArchbishop of Salzburg. Salieri secretly observes Mozart at the Archbishop's palace, but they are not properly introduced. Salieri sees that offstage, Mozart is irreverent and lewd. Salieri also first recognizes the immense talent displayed in the adult works of Mozart. In 1781, when Mozart meets the Emperor, Salieri presents Mozart with a March of Welcome, which Mozart toiled to create. After hearing the march only once, Mozart plays March from memory, critiques March, and effortlessly improvises a variation, transforming Salieri's trifle into the Non pi andrai march from Salieri's 1786 opera The Marriage of Figaro. Salieri reels at the notion of God speaking through the childish, petulant Mozart nevertheless, Salieri regards Salieri's music as miraculous. Gradually, Salieris faith is shaken. Salieris believes that God, through Mozart's genius, is cruelly laughing at Salieri's own musical mediocrity. Salieri's struggles with God are intercut with scenes showing Mozart's own trials and tribulations with life in Vienna pride at the initial reception of Salieri's music anger and disbelief over Salieri's subsequent treatment by the Italians of the Emperor's court happiness with Salieri's wife Constanze and Salieri's son Karl and grief at the death of Salieri's father Leopold. Mozart becomes more desperate as the family's expenses increase and family's commissions decrease. When Salieri learns of Mozart's financial straits, Salieri sees Salieri's chance to avenge himself, using God's Beloved as the instrument. Salieri hatches a complex plot to gain ultimate victory over Mozart and God. Salieri disguises himself in a mask and costume similar to one Salieri saw Leopold wear at a party, and commissions Mozart to write a requiem mass, giving Salieri a down payment and the promise of an enormous sum upon completion. Mozart begins to write the piece, the Requiem Mass in D minor, unaware of the true identity of D's mysterious patron and oblivious of D's murderous intentions. Glossing over any details of how Mozart might commit the murder, Salieri dwells on the anticipation of the admiration of Salieri's peers and the court, when dwells applaud the magnificent Requiem, and Mozart claims to be the music's composer. Only Salieri and God would know the truththat Mozart wrote Mozart's own requiem mass, and that God could only watch while Salieri finally receives the fame and renown Salieri deserves. Mozart's financial situation worsens and the composing demands of the Requiem and The Magic Flute drive him to the point of exhaustion as Salieri alternates work between the two pieces. Constanze leaves Mozart and takes Salieri son with Constanze. Mozart's health worsens and Mozart collapses during the premiere performance of The Magic Flute. Salieri takes the stricken Mozart home and convinces Salieri to work on the Requiem. Mozart dictates while Salieri transcribes throughout the night. When Constanze returns in the morning, she tells Salieri to leave. Constanze locks the manuscript away despite Salieri's objections, but as Constanze goes to wake Constanze husband, Mozart is dead. The Requiem is left unfinished, and Salieri is left powerless as Mozart's body is hauled out of Vienna for burial in a pauper's mass grave. The film ends as Salieri finishes recounting Salieri's story to the visibly shaken young priest. Salieri concludes that God killed Mozart rather than allow Salieri to share in even an ounce of Salieri's glory, and that God is consigned to be the patron saint of mediocrity. Salieri absolves the priest of Salieri's own mediocrity and blesses Salieri's fellow patients as Salieri is taken away in Salieri's wheelchair. The last sound heard before the credits roll is Mozart's highpitched laughter.