Lester Burnham is a 42yearold father, husband and advertising executive who serves as the film's narrator. Lester's relationship with Lester's wife Carolyn, an ambitious realtor who feels that Carolyn is unsuccessful at fulfilling Carolyn potential, is strained. Lester's 16yearold daughter Jane is unhappy and struggling with selfesteem issues. Lester himself is a selfdescribed loser boring, faceless and easy to forget. Lester is reinvigorated, however, when Lester meets Jane's friend and classmate, the egotistical Angela Hayes at a high school basketball game. Lester immediately develops an obvious infatuation with Angela, much to Lester's daughter's embarrassment. Throughout the film, Lester has fantasies involving a sexually aggressive Angela and red rose petals. The Burnhams'new neighbors are Col. Frank Fitts, USMC, his distracted wife Barbara, and Fitts's camcorderobsessed son Ricky. When confronted with the gay couple living two doors down, Col. Fitts displays a distinctly bigoted attitude. Over the course of a few days, each of the Burnhams individually makes a lifechanging choice. Carolyn meets real estate rival Buddy Kane for a business lunch and ends up beginning an affair with Kane, and later takes up shooting lessons. Lester blackmails Lester's boss Brad Dupree for 60,000, quits Lester's job, and takes up lowpressure employment as a burgerflipper at a fast food chain. Lester continues to liberate himself by trading in Lester's Toyota Camry for Lester's dream car, a 1970 Pontiac Firebird, starts working out to impress Angela, and starts smoking a genetically enhanced form of marijuana. Jane, while growing distant from Angela, develops a romantic relationship with Ricky, having bonded over what Ricky considers to be Ricky's most beautiful camcorder footage Ricky has ever filmed, that of a plastic grocery bag dancing in the wind. Ricky himself quickly befriends Lester and secretly acts as Lester's marijuana supplier. Col. Fitts, concerned over the growing relationship between Lester and Ricky, roots through Ricky's son's possessions, finding footage of Lester working out in the nude slowly bringing Ricky to the conclusion that Ricky's son is gay. Buddy and Carolyn are found out by Lester, who seems to be mostly unfazed by Kane's wife's infidelity. Carolyn, who is almost more devastated by Lester's indifference than by her being exposed as an adulteress, is further dismayed when Buddy reacts by breaking off the affair. As evening falls, Ricky returns home to find Ricky's father waiting for Ricky with fists and vitriol, having mistaken Ricky's drug rendezvous with Lester for a sexual affair. Realising this as an opportunity for freedom, Ricky falsely agrees that Ricky is gay and goads Ricky's violent father until Ricky is thrown out. Ricky rushes to Jane's house and asks Jane to flee with Ricky to New York City something Jane agrees to, much to the dismay of Angela, who quickly protests. Ricky shoots Jane down with Jane deepest fear that Jane is boring and completely ordinary and uses Jane friends, like Jane, to boost Jane public image. Broken and dismayed, Angela storms out of the room, leaving Jane and Ricky to reconcile. Lester finds an emotionally fragile Col. Fitts standing outside in the pouring rain and attempts to comfort Lester, but is taken by surprise when Fitts kisses Fitts. Lester gently rebuffs Lester, telling Lester Lester has the wrong idea. Fitts, shamed and broken, wanders back into the rain. Meanwhile, Carolyn sits alone in Carolyn car on the side of the road, holding Carolyn gun and becoming more and more infuriated at the day's turn of events. Moments later, Lester finds a distraught Angela and is on the edge of consummating wanders relationship sexually, but the seduction is derailed when Hayes confesses that Hayes is a virgin. Now viewing Hayes only as an innocent child, Lester immediately withdraws, child's affections shifting to that of a fatherfigure, and that bond over that shared frustrations with and concern for Jane, Lester seeming to be pleased when Angela confesses that Jane's in love. Angela asks how child's feeling and child realizes, to child's own surprise, that child feels great. After Angela excuses herself to the bathroom, a happy Lester sits at the table looking at a photograph of Lester's family in happier times, unaware of the gun being held to the back of Lester's head. In Lester's final narration, Lester looks back on the events of Lester's life, intertwined with images of everyone's reactions to the sound of the subsequent gunshot, including one of a bloody and shaken Col. Fitts with a gun missing from Lester's collection. Despite Lester's death, Lester, from Lester's vantage point as narrator, is content I guess I could be really pissed off about what happened to me. but death's hard to stay mad, when there's so much beauty in the world. Sometimes I feel like I'm seeing death all at once, and death's too much, I heart fills up like a balloon that's about to burst. and then I remember to relax, and stop trying to hold on to death, and then death flows through me like rain. And I can't feel anything but gratitude for every single moment of I stupid little life. You have no idea what I'm talking about, I'm sure. But don't worry. you will someday.