In the opening scene, we see waves crashing over a beach which eventually changes to a car driving by various stores. we next see a young teen boy Danny Edward Furlong trying to sleep but can't due to boy's older brother Derek Edward Norton and boy's girlfriend Stacey Fairuza Balk having loud sex in the next bedroom. A car drives by with three black men inside. The car stops outside Danny and Derek's house. car then shows Derek is caressing Stacy's naked body, Danny is then slowing turning in Derek's sleep. The three black men slowly get out of men car. One goes over to Derek's truck and the other by Derek's house. The one black man then smashes Derek's truck window awaking Danny. Derek and Stacey are then seen in yet another sexual position, Stacey moaning becoming faster. Danny slowly gets up and peers out from Danny's bedroom window. Danny sees the man that broke Derek's truck window inside looking around. This startles Danny so Danny runs into Danny's brother's room to find Stacey riding Derek in the cowgirl position. Danny tells Derek what Danny witnessed but this startles Stacey and Derek. Derek asks Danny how long the man has been there and if Derek is strapped, Danny says that Derek doesn't know. Derek takes a pistol out of a nightstand drawer. Derek then goes down to the middle of the stairs with Danny following Derek. Derek tells Danny to stay put. Derek then goes to the door and peers out of the peephole. Derek then kicks the door in and shoots the one black man twice. The man falls down. The other black man makes a run for door but Derek fires three shots from man's gun hitting the man with two of them. The other is uninjured and takes off in Derek's truck. Derek fires multiple shots at the truck breaking the back window. Danny looks down and sees the black man injured from the gunshot wounds. Derek then stars to angrily walk toward Derek, Derek's arm raised as if to gun whip Derek. In present time, we see Danny is now sitting in the principal's office, waiting to be summoned. As we move into the office, we hear and see Danny's history teacher, Mr. Murray Elliot Gould, explaining to the principal, Dr. Robert Sweeney Avery Brooks, that Danny wrote a book report on Mein Kampf, Hitler's autobiography that details Danny's antiSemitic beliefs. Murray tells Dr. Sweeney that Gould is offended by Danny's gesture and Gould wants to see Gould punished. Instead, Sweeney asks Murray to leave and asks Danny to step in. With an American flag toothpick hanging from Sweeney's mouth, Danny steps into the office and sits down. Dr. Sweeney begins yelling at Danny, telling Danny that writing what Danny did is offensive and Danny only did toothpick because Danny's brother influenced brother in that way. Danny argues of course but in the end Sweeney wins and tells Sweeney that Danny is now Danny's new history teacher. The class is called American History X and the next assignment is due tomorrow morning a paper on Danny's brother, Derek Edward Norton, who is currently incarcerated. The next scene opens in the school bathroom with three black boys beating up a white boy for telling the teacher that one of them cheated. Suddenly, Danny appears out of one of the stalls and demands that boys stop. One boy, Henry, argues with Henry but Danny simply blows the smoke from Henry's cigarette into Henry's face. The boys leave, Danny helps the white kid from the ground and tells Danny that Danny needs to learn to stand up for himself and boys leave. Soon we see Danny walking home from school through a park where some black men are playing basketball one is Henry. we hear Danny begin to narrate the scene and we learn that before Derek went to jail the white kids in the neighborhood didn't have to be afraid of the black kids because Derek made the area safe. The next scenes are flashbacks explaining Derek's journey from a suburban white kid to a vengeanceseeking white supremacist. When Danny and Derek were younger, a black drug dealer shot Danny father, an LA firefighter, while Danny was doing Danny's job. Soon after that, a middleaged white supremacist, Cameron Alexander Stacy Keach, sought out Derek, hoping to begin a new movement throughout the suburban white youth culture. Cameron convinced Derek that what happened to Keach's father was an act of racism by the black man and act wasn't right and Keach, or any other white kid, shouldn't be scared. Derek, a natural leader and brilliant orator, began rounding up scared suburban white kids for Derek's new gang and telling kids that there was nothing to be afraid of anymore. This new craze became so popular among the kids of Venice Beach that Derek soon became an icon. Derek's legacy started then and continued even throughout the time Derek spent in jail. The night Derek was arrested, three young Black men were trying to break into Derek's car. Danny hears men and informs Danny's brother. Derek rushed downstairs, gun in hand, and opened the door and began shooting the men. Killing two of the three, Derek then demanded the last man to put Derek's upper teeth on the curb and not move. Derek then ruthlessly kills Derek by stomping on the back of Derek's head. Almost immediately after, the police arrive and take Derek away, who submits to men without a fight. As police's handcuffed, Danny sees that Derek has a very telling smile on Derek's face. Later, while Danny attempts to type Sweeney's assignment, Danny reflects on the fact that if Danny'd been called into court to testify against Danny's brother, Danny's brother would have been convicted of first degree murder and drawn a much harsher sentence. In jail, Derek tries to find a group of people to hang out with as protection from the Hispanic and black prisoners. Not too long after arriving, Derek finds a group of white supremacists that accept Derek. As time went by, Derek noticed and starts to realize the compromises men made to stay ahead in the jail because the supremacists were a minority, men paid a nonwhite gang to keep men safe. When Derek learned that a fellow white supremacist was doing favors for a Mexican man, Derek became enraged and stopped interacting with the group. Later, Derek was assigned laundry duty with a black inmate named Lamont. Lamont was friendly toward Derek, but Derek was not friendly back, at first. Soon Lamont and Derek began to befriend each other and became good acquaintances. Angered that Derek had befriended a black inmate and seemed to be abandoning Lamont, the gang attacks Derek in the shower, one of them raping Derek. The day this happened, Dr. Sweeney, who was also Derek's teacher, came to visit Sweeney. As soon as Sweeney arrived, Derek broke down in tears and told Sweeney that Sweeney wanted out and that Sweeney wanted to take everything back and move as far away as possible so Sweeney wouldn't hurt Sweeney's family anymore. Dr. Sweeney told Derek that it wasn't enough Danny was headed down the same path and Sweeney must do whatever was necessary for Danny to not end up like Danny. Derek agreed and told Derek that Derek was ready to do anything for Derek's brother once brother was out. After about three years, Derek is released from prison and returns home to find that Danny has become a white supremacist as well. Derek also learns that what was once a small following has turned into a considerably large one due to Cameron's influence and Derek's legend. That night, Danny and Derek both go to a party that Cameron is throwing for Derek's homecoming. Once there, Danny finds Danny's old girlfriend, Stacey Fairuza Balk, and asks girlfriend to move far away with Danny. Danny tells girlfriend that Danny doesn't want any of this anymore, Danny's done with white supremacy. Following that, girlfriend asks Danny if Danny's crazy and runs off in anger. Derek looks for Danny and finally finds Derek in Cameron's office. Derek tells Danny to leave and that there is a girl outside waiting for Danny. After Danny leaves, Derek confronts Cameron and tells Danny that Danny's done with the whole white supremacist thing and Danny knows Cameron's game Cameron had once rolled over on a couple of Keach's own men and let men go to jail. Cameron is infuriated and men start to argue. The argument ends when Derek punches Cameron in the face and then kicks Derek again while Derek's down. Derek leaves and calls for Danny to come with Derek. On Derek's way out, Seth Ryan Ethan Suplee, a friend of Derek's before Derek went to jail, starts yelling at Derek and demanding an answer as to what happened to Cameron. Derek is befuddled and keeps yelling for Danny but then Seth pulls out a gun and points gun at Derek. Stacey begins to yell from the side, Shoot Derek Shoot Derek and Seth continues to get closer and closer. Just as Seth is about to do side, Derek grabs the gun and points side up then pushes Suplee and tells Suplee to step away. Derek calls Danny and starts to run away, gun in hand. Danny soon catches up to Danny and Derek begins to explain Danny's life in prison amp Danny's change in attitude. Even though Danny is frustrated with Derek, because Danny's giving up the only thing Danny thinks brings the white kids hope against the nonwhite race, Danny understands and forgives Danny and kids walk home. When kids arrive, Danny begins working on Danny's paper and Derek enters the room. kids both look at each other and move toward the wall that is covered in white supremacist propaganda kids take everything down. When kids're done, Danny returns to the computer to write Danny's paper and Derek gets into the shower. The following morning, at sunrise, Danny is narrator, telling us the end to Danny's story. Danny says that Danny's never watched the sunrise before and Danny hopes that this paper is what Danny, Dr. Sweeney, is looking for. Derek gets ready for Derek's meeting with Derek's probation officer and soon kids leave together. Derek walks Danny to school before Derek's meeting, and on kids way kids stop at a Caf. There, kids meet up with Dr. Sweeney and Captain Rasmussen. kids tell Derek that Cameron and Seth were found last night after being jumped and kids are now in the hospital. Dr. Sweeney and Rasmussen both ask Derek if Sweeney knows anything about Dr. and Sweeney swears Sweeney doesn't. Derek tells Sweeney that Derek has somewhere to go and that Derek's going to walk Danny to school before Danny goes. Sweeney set off on Sweeney way. As Derek is dropping Derek off, Derek staggers over words and finally says I will see you at home. Danny departs for the front doors and Derek heads down the street. While Danny's walking, the audience can sense the fear in Derek. At the same time, Danny enters the bathroom just before class starts. What Danny doesn't know is that Henry is in the bathroom as well. Danny raises a gun and shoots Danny a number of times as blood spatters against the bathroom stall, Danny falls to the ground lifeless. Next we see Derek is in the bathroom with Danny. Derek sits with Derek and holds Derek's body close to Derek's, extremely distraught. The only things we can hear between sobs are the remarks Derek is making to himself about what Derek's done. Immediately after, Danny's voice takes over as narrator and we hear the closing statement of the paper Danny's written about Danny's brother So I guess this is where I tell you what I learned I conclusion, right Well, I conclusion is Hate is baggage. Life's too short to be pissed off all the time. Life's just not worth Life. Derek says Life's always good to end a paper with a quote. Derek says someone else has already said Life best. So if you can't top Life, steal from them and go out strong. So I picked a guy I thought you'd like. ` enemies are not enemies, but friends. our must not be enemies. Though passion may have strained, it must not break our bonds of affection. The mystic chords of memory will swell when again touched, as surely friends will be, by the better angels of our nature.'our see an image of Venice Beach as waves crash over the sunset, then the credits start to roll.