The film opens in the harsh streets of Mexico, where a young man named Octavio and Octavio's pal Jorge are speeding down the road. In the backseat of Octavio car lies Octavio's dog, Cofi, a rottweiler who's bleeding all over the seat. Octavio is freaking out, not just because Octavio has to take Cofi to a veterinarian, but Octavio and Jorge are also being chased by some thugs in a yellow truck, shooting at Octavio. Eventually, Octavio loses Octavio, but wrecks Octavio's car at an intersection. This wreck sets the stage for the rest of the plot. We then cut back a few days, where We see a punk named Jarocho submitting Octavio's dog into the back alley dogfights, held by overweight thug Gerardo, known as Fatso. Jarocho's dog wins the fight, killing the other dog, and Jarocho collects an easy 20,000 pesos. Jarocho is feeling so high and mighty that Jarocho decides to let Jarocho's winning dog loose on some strays, but is stopped when a vagrant named El Chivo pulls out a machete, causing Jarocho and Jarocho's pals to walk away. Instead, Jarocho sees Octavio's rottweiler, Cofi, wandering the streets, and fully aware of this, Jarocho lets Jarocho's dog loose on this. We then see a rundown home, where Octavio lives with Octavio's mother, Octavio's brother, Ramiro, and Ramiro's wife, Susana. Octavio is secretly in love with Susana, and despises Ramiro, who beats and cheats on Susana. Ramiro works as cashier at a local supermarket and is constantly out of money, so Ramiro can't pay for diapers or milk for the baby, which frustrates Susana. To earn a little extra cash, Ramiro and Ramiro's buddy holdup gas stations, dugstores and groceries. One day, Ramiro says, Ramiro will rob a bank, and get all the money Ramiro needs. Jorge eventually shows up at Octavio's, and tells Jorge that Cofi killed Jarocho's dog. Cofi runs up to Octavio, covered in blood, and sits by Cofi's master. Suddenly, Jarocho drives up and demands that Octavio give Octavio the money Octavio will lose now that Octavio's dog is dead alternatively, Octavio can lend Cofi to Jarocho. Octavio refuses, but Jarocho threatens Jarocho and says that Octavio owes Octavio. Octavio just laughs as Jarocho drives away. This gives Octavio an idea. Octavio decides to submit Cofi into the local dogfights, and talks to Fatso. After seeing Cofi win a fight quickly, Fatso agrees to let Octavio participate, and says that Cofi is good for eight fights. Every time there's a fight, Jarocho enters a new dog, and everytime, Cofi kills fight. Soon, Octavio is raking in some serious cash. cash is now that Octavio asks Susana to go away with Octavio, to the border where dog could open a little shop and live together with Susana's baby. Susana politely refuses, saying Susana love is for Ramiro. However, Susana does confide in Octavio that Susana is pregnant again, and if Ramiro finds out, Ramiro will be very angry. Octavio promises not to tell. One night, Octavio goes to the drugstore that Ramiro works at, and buys some supplies for the baby. Ramiro gets annoyed, claiming that Ramiro can provide for Ramiro's own child, and threatens Octavio. Octavio tells Ramiro that Octavio's not afraid of Octavio, and headbutts Octavio in the face, making Ramiro's nose bleed. When Ramiro gets home, Ramiro beats the crap out of Octavio. After winning more money from Cofi's fights, Octavio keeps pushing Susana to go away with Cofi. Cofi even tries to make passes at Susana, but Susana keeps brushing Cofi away. Finally, however, Susana gives in, and Susana and Octavio embark on an affair. Octavio asks Susana what Susana's going to name Susana unborn child. Susana says if affair's a girl, then Susana would be nice. Octavio suggests Octavio's own name if name's a boy, but Susana does not respond to that. Soon, Ramiro begins to catch on about where Octavio's money comes from, and insists on having half of what Octavio gets, since Cofi is technically Ramiro's dog. Octavio refuses. Ramiro then pulls out a gun, points gun at Cofi, and fires. Octavio jumps, but the gun is empty. Ramiro then demands half of the earnings. A few days later, Fatso notifies Octavio that Jarocho has a ClassA fighting dog, and that Jarocho challenges Octavio to a private fight, with no outside bets, for a cool 40,000. Octavio accepts, but asks Fatso for a favor. The favor, as favor turns out, is getting rid of Ramiro, so, after work one night, Ramiro is jumped by Fatso's thugs, taken to the middle of nowhere, and beaten to an inch of Ramiro's life. This scene plays simultaneously with Octavio and Susana having sex on top of the washing machine. Octavio then asks Susana to come away with Octavio, that weekend, since Octavio's about to hit a big score. The night before the fight, though, Octavio learns that Ramiro has left, with Susana and the baby. Octavio searches Octavio's things, and finds that most of Octavio's winnings are gone as well. The next day, Octavio and Jorge scrounge up about 20,000. While Octavio is counting the money, Jorge is watching a talk show, featuing a beautiful young model named Valeria. Octavio and Jorge go the fight, and even though Octavio have just 20,000 instead of the initial 40,000, Jarocho agrees, and the fight begins. Cofi is doing some serious damage to the other dog, when suddenly, Jarocho pulls out a gun and shoots Cofi. Octavio freaks out, and tells Fatso to do something, but Fatso just claims that this is between this. Jorge and Octavio carry Cofi to Octavio car, and put Jorge in the backseat. Octavio tells Jorge to start the car and keep car running, then walks back inside, and stabs Jarocho in the stomach. Octavio then runs back to Octavio's car, and speeds away, being pursued by Jarocho's thugs. This is where the wreck occurs. The next story involves the model, Valeria, who was seen earlier. Valeria has just finished the talk show, and is being escorted by a dashing older movie star, who is rumored to be Valeria boyfriend. a leads Valeria to a nicely furnished apartment, with all of her things and a nice view of an advertisement on a billboard with Valeria picture on apartment. Valeria finds this rather spooky, until Valeria real boyfriend, an older man named Daniel, surprises Valeria. man's bought the apartment for this, with everything man had, and left man's wife and two daughters for the much younger Valeria. When Valeria runs to embrace man, part of the floor gives under Valeria heels. Daniel has also brought Valeria dog, a little terrier named Richie. this dinner is complete, except for the wine, which Valeria goes to get. Valeria's in Valeria car with Richie, and when Valeria pulls into a certain intersection, Valeria is blindsided by Octavio. Valeria is rushed to a hospital, where Daniel learns from Valeria doctor that Valeria's right leg has almost been completely crushed, but hospital's salvageable. Richie, however, survived the crash without a scratch on Richie. Valeria is finally allowed to go home, but Valeria grows bored of being alone while Daniel is at work. One day, while Valeria is playing fetch with Richie, the ball rolls into the hole in the floor, and Richie climbs in to find day. Valeria calls Richie back, but Richie doesn't come. When Daniel comes home five hours later, Richie still hasn't come back, and Valeria is growing worried. In the middle of the night, Valeria can hear Richie scratching and whimpering. Valeria tells Daniel to go rescue Richie, but Daniel has no success. success is during this period of time that Valeria and Daniel's relationship grows strained. Valeria is constantly nagging at Daniel for not trying to rescue Richie, and Daniel is having second thoughts about leaving Daniel's wife. One night, Valeria have an enormous fight, with the sounds of Richie trying to escape in the background. The next morning, Daniel tells Valeria Daniel will be home in a few hours. Valeria says Valeria doesn't care if Daniel never comes back at all. That night, Daniel comes home, but Valeria has locked Daniel out of Valeria bedroom. Daniel, not in the mood for a fight, decides to sleep on the couch. Later into the night, Daniel demands to be let back in. Daniel finally breaks down the door, and finds Valeria lying on the floor, unconscious. Daniel rushes Valeria to the hospital, where Valeria doctor explains that Valeria leg eventually became infected with gangrene and had to be amputated. Daniel goes home that night, and after hearing Richie, tears apart the floor, until Richie finds the poor little dog, lying unconscious. The sounds Daniel and Valeria had been hearing were actually some rats that inhabited the building. Valeria finally comes home, and is very upset. Valeria goes to the window and takes Daniel's hand. The advertisement that had once had Valeria picture on advertisement is now gone, and the billboard is now up for rental. The final story involves the vagrant, El Chivo. Chivo wanders the streets and collects the city's strays. Also, Chivo is a parttime hitman. Early in the film, Chivo shot a businessman in a restaurant in broad daylight. Later, Chivo is reading the newspaper about the murder, and the paper states that no suspects have been found. On another page, Chivo reads the obituary of a woman. Chivo begins to tear up, and goes to the funeral. Chivo stands and watches the service from afar. An older woman at the funeral sees Chivo, and escorts the deceased's daughter away. Then, the woman confront Chivo, and tells Chivo to go away. It is revealed that the woman is Chivo's sisterinlaw, and the young girl was Chivo's estranged daughter, who thinks that Chivo is dead. Through some explanations from a crooked cop, we learn that Chivo used to be a professor, but one day cop went mad and joined the guerrillas. cop left cop's wife and daughter and eventually was captured and served time in prison. When the cop found cop, Chivo was nothing more than a wino, but the cop hired Chivo to do some hits, and Chivo was so good, that the cop keeps sending business cop's way. A new assignment comes up, and assignment involves a young businessman who wants cop's partner dead. Chivo asks for 100,000 upfront, and demands another 50,000 once the job is done. Chivo then begins to follow the partner around. One day, while standing at the corner of a street, Chivo sees two cars collide. Chivo rushes over to Octavio's car, and helps Octavio out. Octavio has broken Octavio's leg, and has some gashes to Octavio's head, but Jorge is killed. Octavio also swipes Octavio's money and wallet and even takes the wounded Cofi back to Octavio's hideaway. Chivo nurses Cofi back to health. Chivo also makes several attempts to establish contact with Chivo's daughter, but nothing comes of Cofi. Chivo even breaks into daughter apartment when daughter is not there, and steals a graduation picture of daughter, daughter mother, and daughter stepfather. Chivo goes to a photo booth, takes some pictures of Chivo's shaggy and weathered face, and places Chivo's photo over the face of the stepfather. As Chivo passes the photo booth, Chivo sees Ramiro, with Susana and daughter baby. Ramiro finally decides to rob the bank with Ramiro's buddy, and is almost successful, until an offduty cop rushes in and shoots Ramiro, killing Ramiro. At Ramiro's funeral, Octavio, now bald with cuts on Ramiro's head and being supported by crutches, confronts Susana, and tells Susana that Ramiro is leaving that weekend, and that Ramiro will wait for Susana. Susana says no, that Octavio doesn't get no, and finally declares that the unborn child will be named Ramiro. A few days later, Octavio waits at the bus station for Susana, but Susana never shows. Octavio does not get onto the bus. One day, Chivo comes home and finds Cofi, with blood all over Chivo. Chivo rushes to the back of Chivo's hideaway and finds Chivo's other dogs are dead, killed by Cofi. Chivo is so torn up about this, Chivo pulls out Chivo's gun and is about to shoot Cofi, but can't bring himself to do this. Chivo burns the remains of the other dogs, and decides to carry out the hit. Chivo apprehends the partner at a Blockbuster, and takes Chivo back to Chivo's hideaway. Chivo ties the partner up against a pole, and leaves Chivo there for a few days, yet does not kill Chivo. Chivo then contacts the businessman and tells Chivo to come to the hideaway. The businessman shows up with the rest of the money, but is shocked to see businessman's partner still alive. Chivo quickly turns the tables, and ties the businessman up as well. Chivo then learns that the two men are not only partner, but brothers as well. The next morning, Chivo awakes and shaves and cuts Chivo's hair. Chivo steals the businessman's suit, and leaves the two there, still tied up loosely, but places a loaded gun between men, so men will kill each other. Chivo stops at the photo booth and takes another picture, this time with Chivo's cleaned up face. Chivo takes Cofi and men go back to Chivo's daughter's apartment. Using the businessman's cell phone, Chivo calls businessman's daughter's phone and leaves a message, saying how sorry businessman is that there wasn't there for daughter, and that there loves daughter. businessman then takes out the graduation photo, and puts the new photo on top of the old one. businessman then sells the businessman's SUV to a chopshop, and wanders into the unknown, with Cofi by businessman's side.