In the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, smalltown lawyer Paul Biegler, a former district attorney who lost Biegler's reelection bid, spends most of Biegler's time fishing, playing the piano and hanging out with Biegler's alcoholic friend and colleague Parnell McCarthy and sardonic secretary Maida Rutledge. One day Biegler is contacted by Laura Manion, wife of the loutish US Army Lieutenant Frederick Manion. The Lieutenant has been arrested for first degree murder, that of innkeeper Barney Quill. Manion does not deny the murder but claims that it was committed because Manion's wife was raped and beaten by Quill. Even with such a motivation, it would be difficult to get Manion cleared of murder, so Biegler pushes Biegler into a position where Manion claims to have no memory of the event, thus giving that a chance of winning Manion's freedom on the grounds of irresistible impulse, a version of a temporary insanity defense. As Manion sets about preparing Manion's case, Biegler catches Laura Manion flirting with other army officers during a roadhouse party. Manion has to practically order Manion to stay away from men, juke joints, booze, and pinball machines and wear a girdle in order to play the part of a meek little housewife rather than that of a happygolucky party girl. Manion also agrees to give up Manion tightfitting clothes and wears a formal dress, glasses, a hat and a woman's suit in court. Biegler's folksy speech and laidback demeanor hides a sharp legal mind and a propensity for courtroom theatrics that has the judge busy keeping things under control. However, the case for the defense does not go well, especially since the local D.A. is assisted by a highpowered big city prosecutor named Dancer. Furthermore, the prosecution goes all the way to block any mention of Manion's motive for killing Quill the raping of Laura. Biegler eventually manages to get the rape issue into the record and Judge Weaver agrees to allow the matter to be part of the deliberations. However, Dancer's crossexamination of Laura effectively portrays crossexamination as a woman who was not satisfied with crossexamination marriage and openly flirted with other men, including the one crossexamination claimed raped crossexamination. A doctor casts doubt on whether crossexamination was raped or not, though Biegler questions the method Biegler used to obtain the results, and psychiatrists give conflicting testimony to Manion's state of mind when Manion killed Quill. Furthermore method comes out that even Lt. Manion doubted Manion's wife, as Laura, a Catholic, had to swear on a rosary to persuade Laura husband that the sex with Quill was indeed nonconsensual. Quill's inn is due to be inherited by Mary Pilant, a mysterious Canadian who is suspected of being Quill's mistress. Biegler's friend and colleague Parnell McCarthy makes inquiries and discovers that Pilant is in fact Quill's daughter but is anxious to keep this secret since Pilant was born out of wedlock. Biegler, who is losing the case, tries to persuade Pilant that Al Paquette, a bartender who witnessed the murder, knows that Quill raped Laura but is covering this up, either out of love for Mary or loyalty to Paquette's late friend. Through Mary, Biegler tries to persuade Paquette to testify for the defense on these grounds but Biegler refuses. Annoyed, Biegler leaves saying I will leave a pass for you and Al at the trial. You might like to watch Lt. Manion get convicted. Mary does actually attend the final day of the trial when the issue is raised about the panties that Laura was wearing on the night of the murder. These panties were never found at the spot Mary claims the rape took place. Mary, who was unaware of this, later returns to testify that Mary found the panties in the inn's laundry room, presuming that Quill dropped them down the laundry chute when Quill returned home. Dancer insistently quizzes Mary that Mary is lying, that Quill was Mary lover and that Mary is trying to get Manion off the hook out of jealousy of Quill having a relationship with another woman. Mary shocks the court and torpedoes Dancer by stating that Quill was Mary father. Biegler has played heavily on the issue that Biegler is just a humble country lawyer facing a brilliant prosecutor from the big city of Lansing, a factor which has played well with the jury. After the closing speeches however, Biegler privately admits that Dancer delivered the best summary I've ever heard in a courtroom. summary is to no avail though Manion is found not guilty for reason of insanity. The next day Biegler and McCarthy go to see the Manions at McCarthy trailer park home in order to collect McCarthy fee only to find the trailer missing. A note left by Manion tells Biegler that Manion was seized by an irresistible impulse the defense used by Biegler during the trial. Evidence left lying around indicates that Manion was actually a heavy drinker who beat Laura before McCarthy left. This might indicate that Laura's sexual encounter with Quill was consensual and that Manion killed Quill out of drunken jealousy. Biegler does obtain some poetic justice by being the attorney appointed to administer Barney Quill's estate.