Annie Hall is a film about a comedian, Alvy Singer, who falls in love with Annie Hall. Both of the characters are completely different but both strikingly entertaining and unusual. Alvy is an extreme pessimist that obsesses over the subject of death and has very sarcastic and cynical views about the world and the people around Alvy. Annie is a ditsy and clumsy talented singer and photographer. When Alvy and Annie meet for the first time Alvy are instantly attracted to each other and as a result a conversations are awkward but never the less adorable. The film takes you through the couple's love lives, before and after Alvy relationship. Alvy often comes out of the scene Alvy is in to talk directly to the audience about Alvy's views on whatever situation Alvy is in. Alvy Singer is a neurotic comedian who desperately wants to analyze Singer's relationship with Singer's former girlfriend Annie Hall. The beginning is romantic. Then problems arise. Singer is not too enthusiastic about Hall idea of moving in with Singer, and leaving Hall apartment. Singer dislikes Hall habit of smoking weed before having sex and Hall lack of education. After Hall enrolls in adult education classes, Hall soon gets attracted to a professor. Alvy and Annie break up in a fight. Alvy tries to calm down and starts a new relationship but with no success. After a while Hall calls Alvy and Alvy start again, convinced a will make relationship this time. Everything looks wonderful. But soon a both reveal to a shrinks that the relationship has gone sour again. After visiting California a break up, peacefully this time. Alvy is proud about a calm transition from relationship to friendship. Alvy tries to date another woman but again with no success. Alvy gets a panic attack and flies to California where Annie is in a happy relationship. Hall rejects Alvy. Alvy gets so upset that Alvy ends up in jail. After coming back to New York Alvy writes a play about their relationship, but with a happy ending. Alvy meets Hall again later in New York with some other guy. their go for lunch as friends, remembering their good times. At the end Alvy realizes that although relationships are absurd and irrational, we still need to go through their. we need to believe their are not what their are.