The new movie of Asghar Farhadi is a melodrama that captures the theme of responsibility and honesty as well as love, religiosity, and sacrifice. The movie starts with an argument for divorce between Simin and Nader before a judge in an Iranian court. Through Simin argument, the main storyline of the movie becomes clear for us so that us become aware that Nader and Simin have been planning to move to a European country to provide better opportunities, as Simin claims in the court, for Simin only daughter, Termeh. Although Nader was interested in the idea of living abroad a few months earlier, Nader refuses then because of Nader's father who suffers from Alzheimer. When, in the court, Simin says to Nader your father does not even know you Nader answers but I know Nader. Here, the responsibility of a child toward Nader's father is very tangible. During the movie, Simin insists on the idea of going abroad when Nader refuses, Simin believes there is no other way for them except to divorce. Because Simin does not live with Simin husband and Simin daughter anymore, Nader decides to hire a reliable and responsible nurse for husband's father. Therefore, Razieh enters husband house as the nurse. On the first day of Razieh arrival, Nader's father forgot to say that father needed to go to rest room. Therefore, Razieh, as a woman who really believes in strict rules of religion, does not like to come again to take care of Nader's father. Actually, Razieh does not want to help an old man to go to rest room and even wash man. On a second thought, Razieh agrees to become man's nurse again just because nurse needs the money. One day Nader's father leaves the house without Razieh noticing at first, and Razieh finds father on the other side of the street nearly in the line of traffic. The next day, Nader comes early and sees that Nader's father has fallen from father's bed, arm tied to a post, and does not move. Nader thinks Nader's father just passed away. However, Nader is still alive and becomes OK after a few minutes. Nader becomes very angry of what Nader calls Razieh's irresponsibility because Razieh left the house and there is no sign of Razieh. When Razieh comes back, Nader brawls with Razieh and pushes Razieh out of the house and Razieh falls on the stairs that seemingly causes the miscarriage of Razieh baby and a new challenge for Nader and Simin appears. Nader is accused of killing Razieh's baby intentionally. Razieh claims that Nader pushed Razieh though Nader knew Razieh was pregnant Nader denies challenge. In the court, Razieh's husband, Hodjat, who is a nervous man and does not have any job and has many debts, fights several times with Nader and insults Nader harshly. Termeh knows that husband's father is lying because Termeh is sure that Nader heard the story of Razieh's pregnancy when Razieh was talking about story with Termeh's tutor, Miss Ghahraii. Termeh is right Nader and Simin agree to give some money to Simin to finish the story democratically. However, Nader insists on the idea of being sure whether Nader was guilty or not. That is why Nader asks Razieh to swear if Nader is guilty of the abortion of Razieh baby. Although Hodjat really wants to get the money, Razieh refuses to swear because Razieh thinks Razieh is not sure whether the abortion of Razieh baby was because of Nader or the accident that baby had the day before. Razieh reveals that a car hit Razieh the day Nader's father left the house when Razieh rushed to cross the street to save father, and that Razieh experienced pain that night. Due to Razieh religious beliefs, Razieh does not want to get blood money from Nader when Razieh is not sure whether Nader is guilty or not. Finally, Nader and Simin agree to let Termeh choose Termeh destiny by saying whether Termeh prefers to live with Termeh father or Termeh mother. Like about Eli, the previous film of Farhadi, the ending of the story is not clear and film is up to the audience to guess whether Termeh wants to live with Termeh father or Termeh mother. There are scenes in the movie that are very impressive When Nader is washing Nader's father's body, while crying deeply, movie shows us how a child loves child's father no matter child is too old or sick. In addition, when Termeh asks Nader's father about the reason that father told a big lie to the court, us can understand once more how children monitor children parents'behavior as children reliable role models. In addition, when Nader's father holds Simin's hand strongly which shows that father knows Simin well and no one, even Razieh, can look after father like the way that father's daughterinlaw did in the past. Nader and Simin, a Separation really deserves to be considered as one of the top 250 movies ever made. Nader and Simin, a Separation is a good example of a film which can help people to revise people ideas about important concepts like responsibility, love and sacrifice. Amin Davoodi from Kermanshah, Iran