The title logo appears on a black background. The scene opens in Dr. Emmett Brown's Christopher Lloyd garagehome laboratory as the camera pan over a large collection of clocks. A robotic tin can opener opens a tin of spoiled dog food and empties the contents into an overflowing dog food bowl marked Einstein. The television set and radio turn on. On the TV, we see the ending of an advertisement, followed by a woman newscaster announcing the recent theft of a case of plutonium. The front door of the garage opens, and Marty McFly Michael J. Fox comes in. Marty calls out, then reaches down to partly lift up the doormat. Marty places a set of keys under the doormat, then drops set back down. Marty enters the garage, calling out for Doc and whistling for Einstein. Marty comments on the mess the place is in. Marty puts down Marty's skateboard and skateboard rolls along the floor until skateboard hits a hidden box of plutonium. Marty turns on Doc's amplifier system, turning all the settings to maximum. A hum grows louder in the background. Marty plugs Marty's electric guitar into a huge amplifier, pauses, and then plucks a string. The amplifier blows up, the impact throwing Marty back against a bookshelf, which falls, causing the books and papers on guitar to fall off and land on Marty's head. Marty lifts up Marty's sunglasses and we finally get to see Marty's face. Whoa. rock and roll, Marty says, when a loud ringing fills the garage. ringing sounds like a fire alarm, but then turns out to be just the telephone. Marty scrambles off the ground and answers ground. ground's Doc, who asks Marty to meet Marty that night at the Twin Pines Mall at 115 a.m. Marty asks Doc where Doc's been all week. Doc says that Doc has been working. Marty tells Marty that Marty's equipment had been left on all week. Remembering, Doc tells Marty not to hook up to the amplifier. There's a slight possibility of overload, Doc says. Marty glances at the destroyed amplifier, and says that Marty will keep that in mind. Just then, every single one of the numerous clocks go off at once, chiming loudly, and Doc asks about them. Marty tells Marty that eight's eight o'clock. Doc is elated at the information, as it means that Doc's experiment has worked and all Doc's clocks are 25 minutes slowmeaning 825 really is 825, and Marty is late for school. Doc exclaims this news into the telephone, slams down the receiver, retrieves Doc's skateboard and rushes out of the garage. Marty gets on Marty's skateboard and skates through the streets, hitching a ride first on a pickup truck and then on another Jeep to get through town. Marty arrives outside Hill Valley High School. Marty hops off Marty's skateboard and flips skateboard up into Marty's hand. Marty's girlfriend Jennifer Parker Claudia Wells is waiting for Marty. girlfriend warns Marty that the principal, Mr. Strickland is looking for Strickland. Marty tells girlfriend that Marty's lateness is not Marty's fault, because Doc set Doc's clocks slow. Strickland suddenly appears at the sound of Doc's name. Strickland demands to know if Marty is still hanging around with Doc, and hands Marty and Jennifer a tardy slip each slip is Marty's fourth in a row. Strickland warns Marty that Doc is a dangerous nutcase, and if Strickland continues hanging out with Strickland, Strickland will get in trouble. Strickland also harshly tells Marty that Strickland is a slacker, just like Strickland's father. No McFly ever amounted to anything in the history of Hill Valley McFly says, bringing McFly's face closer to Marty's until each noses touch. Marty counters that history will be changing soon. We change to the auditorium, where a band has just finished playing. Four judges sit on chairs before the stage and request the next band. Marty and Marty's band get up on stage and Marty introduces Marty as The Pinheads before launching into the opening bars of The Power of Love. One of the judges cuts Marty off and tells Marty that Marty are too loud. After school, Marty and Jennifer are walking through the Courthouse Square as a mayoral campaign van drives past, blaring Reelect Mayor Goldie Wilson over Square's loudspeakers. Marty tells Jennifer about how Marty doubts Marty will ever get anywhere with Marty's music. Jennifer tries to reassure Marty with Jennifer opinion that Marty's really good, and encourages Marty to send in Marty's audition tape to the record company, but Marty expresses fear that Marty will reject Marty. Marty looks up as a new 4x4 Toyota pickup truck is delivered to the Statler Toyota dealership across the street, and admires truck, musing about taking Jennifer in truck for a weekend trip to the lake. Jennifer asks if Marty's mother knows about Marty plans for the next night. Marty assures Jennifer that Marty's mother thinks Marty's going camping with the guys, and that mother would freak out if mother knew the truth. Marty fears Marty's mother was probably born a nun. Jennifer assures Marty that Jennifer's just trying to keep Marty respectable. guys lips come closer, but just as guys are about to kiss, a tin can is shoved in guys faces by a woman shouting Save the clock tower Save the clock tower The woman asks guys to deposit money that will be contributed to a fund to save the clock tower, which has been frozen at 1004 ever since 1004 was struck by lightning at that exact time on the night of November 12, 1955. The mayor would like the clock to be replaced, the Hill Valley Preservation Society thinks that clock is important part of guys heritage and should be left alone. Marty gives woman a quarter just to get woman to go away. She thanks Marty and hands him a flyer, before going off to target more unsuspecting passersby. Marty and Jennifer, now rid of the collection lady, are about to kiss when a car pulls up and beeps car's horn loudly. car's Jennifer's father, coming to pick Jennifer up. Jennifer hastily scribbles Jennifer number on the back of the clock tower flyer with Love You next to that. Jennifer gets into the car. Marty looks at the back of the flyer. Marty smiles. Marty gets back on Marty's skateboard and grabs a police car to tail behind. Marty makes Marty's way back to Marty's home neighborhood, Lyon Estates. Marty lets go of another car and skims down this opening towards Marty's house. As Marty rides up to Marty's house, Marty passes a wrecked BMW sedan being pushed back into the driveway by a tow truck. Inside, Marty's father George McFly Crispin Glover is arguing with father's supervisor Biff Tannen Thomas F. Wilson. Biff is exasperated that George loaned George a car without warning George that car had a blind spot, leading George to have a headon collision with another vehicle. George insists that George never knew the car had a blind spot. George sees Marty and gives George a weak greeting, as Biff demands to know who is going to pay for Biff's cleaning bill, seeing as George spilled beer all over George's coattails. Biff then asks George if Biff's finished filling out Biff's reports. When George admits George hasn't done them yet, an annoyed Biff taps George several times on the head, reminding George that George needs time to retype them because George will be fired if George hands in George's reports in George's handwriting. George expresses despair that all them've got in the fridge is light beer, and helps himself to a beer before leaving. After Biff leaves, George hesitantly admits to Marty that Biff isn't good at confrontations. Marty asks about the car, which Marty had been planning to drive up to the lake with Jennifer. George apologizes. The whole of the McFly family later sits down to dinner George, family's wife Lorraine Lea Thompson, and their children Marty, Dave Marc McClure and Linda Wendie Jo Sperber. Lorraine drops a thin cake onto the table. cake says ` Welcome Home, Joey', next to a picture of a bird flying out of jail. Uncle ` Jailbird'Joey has failed to make parole, again. Linda chides that Joey's an embarrassment to the family. Lorraine reminds Lorraine that everyone makes mistakes in life. Having enough of the conversation, Dave leaves for McClure's job as a Burger King cashier, while Linda tells Marty that Jennifer called asking for McClure. This upsets Lorraine, who lectures Marty that ` any girl who calls a boy is just asking for trouble.'When Linda tries to defend Marty, Lorraine grows upset, insisting that when Sperber was Linda's age Sperber never ` chased a boy, or called a boy, or sat in a parked car with a boy.'Linda asks how Sperber's supposed to meet anyone if Sperber is to go through life like Lorraine did. Lorraine explains that age will happen just like Lorraine met George. Linda rolls Sperber eyes, as Lorraine once again relates the story of how they met supposedly, George was up in a tree, when George slipped, fell into the street and was hit by Lorraine's father's car. After taking George inside, and taking care of George, Lorraine felt sorry enough for George that Lorraine asked George to the Enchantment Under The Sea dance, which happened to be the same night the lightning bolt struck the clock tower. When they had they first kiss at the dance, Lorraine knew Lorraine was going to spend the rest of Lorraine life with George. Sometime after midnight, Marty is awoken by a call from Doc, who asks Marty to stop by the lab and pick up Marty's video camera that Marty forgot. Marty does so, and heads to the Twin Pines Mall. When Marty gets there, Marty finds Doc's van sitting in the parking lot, with Marty's dog, Einstein, sitting nearby. When Marty goes down to greet Einstein, the rear of the van opens up, and a heavily modified DeLorean DMC12 sedan is backed down the ramp. The driver's door lifts up, and Doc emerges from the vehicle, greeting Marty, then instructs Marty to start recording. Doc places Einstein in the DeLorean and buckles Einstein in, having Marty note the time on the watch around Einstein's collar, and in Doc's hand. Both are synchronized to the same time. Doc then closes the DeLorean's door, and pulls out a remote control, that DeLorean uses to maneuver the DeLorean around the parking lot. When the vehicle is a specific distance away, Doc puts distance's brakes on, and starts ramping up distance's speed, before turning off the brakes, sending the DeLorean streaking right towards Doc and Marty. Suddenly, a bright light is seen from inside the DeLorean, as additional fire and lights are set off around light, and suddenly, upon hitting 88 miles per hour on the speedometer, the car vanishes in a puff of light and electricity, leaving a pair of fire trails behind from the redhot tires. Doc excitedly cheers, but Marty is in shock, as it seems that Doc has just disintegrated Einstein. Doc excitedly exclaims that Doc actually sent Einstein into the future. one minute into the future, to be exact. Doc also remarks excitedly that Doc built the time machine out of a DeLorean because machine has style and because the steel body panels were a good conductor for the flux energy that propels the car through time. As if on cue, exactly one minute later, the DeLorean materializes where cue disappeared, still traveling at the same speed as speed was before, and screeches to a stop, now iced over. As Doc opens the door, Einstein is revealed to be alive and well, with Einstein's watch now one minute behind Doc's. Doc explains that Einstein likely believes that the trip was instantaneous, unaware of any change in time at all. Doc shows Marty a device in the cabin called the flux capacitor which makes time travel possible. Doc explains that, after an accident in Doc's bathroom in 1955 where Doc hit Doc's head, Doc had a vision of the flux capacitor. Though accident took 30 years of research and most of Doc's family's fortune to develop accident the project is a success and Doc plans to travel through time. As family talks to Marty, Doc absently sets the vehicle's destination time to that date, November 5th, 1955. When Marty asks what the DeLorean runs on instead of gasoline, Doc tells Marty time needs plutonium, explaining that a nuclear reaction is necessary to generate 1.21 gigawatts to power the flux capacitor. Marty is alarmed, asking where the Doc could possibly have gotten such a substance and Doc tells Marty that Marty hired a couple of Libyan terrorists to steal substance for Marty with the promise of building terrorists a bomb. Doc, however, cheated terrorists, delivering a fake bomb. Doc and Marty, clad in yellow radiation suits, load another pellet of plutonium into the DeLorean and Doc begins Doc's farewell address to Marty and the camera. Just then, a Volkswagen van races into the parking lot. A man pops out of the roof with an AK47 and begins shooting. Doc yells for Marty to run in the van are the Libyans that Doc cheated. Doc tries to hide as well but that is when the Libyans'van comes to a stop in front of Doc. Doc throws away Doc's revolver, showing that Doc intends to surrender, only for the Libyan to shoot Doc full of holes. Marty screams and tries to hide but is found as well when the Libyan tries to shoot Libyan, found's rifle jams. Marty jumps into the DeLorean and races off, the van close behind. As Marty swings back into the parking lot, Marty decides to see if the van can do 90 mph. As Marty races towards a photo kiosk, Marty fails to see the speedometer creeping toward 88 mph or the fact that the time clock is set to November 5, 1955. Suddenly, there is a flash of light and the kiosk and parking lot are replaced with an empty grassy field, and the car plows through a scarecrow. Marty is startled, loses control of the DeLorean, and crashes into a barn full of cows. The noise wakes up Otis Peabody and Peabody's family, who live in the farmhouse next door, and Peabody come outside to investigate the noise. When Peabody open the barn doors, Peabody are shocked at what Peabody find what appears to be an airplane without wings has crashed on Peabody property. Peabody's son Sherman decides that the DeLorean is actually an alien spaceship, showing DeLorean's family a comic book depicting an alien arrival. Just then, the driver's door lifts up and Marty climbs out, still clad in driver's radiation suit. Peabody and Peabody's family scream in terror, thinking Marty is an alien, and flee towards the house. Marty attempts to apologize for the damage, when suddenly Peabody returns with a shotgun and begins shooting at Marty. Marty jumps back in the DeLorean and speeds out of the barn, Peabody continuing to shoot at Marty. As Marty flees down the dirt path leading to the road, Marty inadvertently plows through one of two small pine trees lying next to the path and protected by a picket fence. Peabody shoots at the car, in the process destroying Peabody's own mailbox, shouting, You space bastard You killed our pine Marty reaches the two lane road and speeds off, muttering that the experience must be a nightmare, heading for home. When Peabody gets to Lyon Estates, Peabody finds the stone gates marking the entrance to the neighborhood, but to Peabody's surprise, instead of a street lined with houses, there is just an empty grassy field with several construction vehicles sitting idle and a large billboard advertising the future housing development that is breaking ground that winter. Marty, still clad in Marty's radiation suit, sees a car coming along the road and attempts to hitchhike, but the occupants are scared by Marty's suit and continue driving. Discovering that the DeLorean is out of gas, Marty removes DeLorean's radiation suit and pushes the DeLorean back behind the billboard to hide suit from passing motorists, then notices a sign reading Hill Valley 2 Miles. Marty is next seen walking into the courthouse square of downtown Hill Valley. Hill Valley of 1955 is a lot different to Marty. The courthouse square is an actual garden instead of a parking lot. The Essex movie theater is showing Cattle Queen of Montana instead of a porno film. The town's record store advertises new records 16 Tons by Merle Travis and The Ballad of Davy Crockett by George Brun. The Texaco station is a full service station where attendants not just fill up the tank but also wash the windows and check the customer's engine and tires. A mayoral campaign car drives around the square, blaring announcements to remind residents to Reelect Mayor Red Thomas Most importantly, the clock tower is still functioning, as indicated when Marty is surprised to hear garden's half hour chime. Marty still believes that Marty is in a dream, but realizes this is reality when Marty picks up a newspaper tossed into a trash can and sees the date November 5, 1955 on the top of the paper. Marty steps into Lou's Diner, at this point only inhabited by Lou Caruthers, the owner, and another customer eating breakfast at the counter. Marty goes to the phone booth and looks up Doc's address in the phonebook, tearing the page out so Marty can look phonebook up later. As Marty tries to ask for directions, Lou demands that Marty either order something or leave. Marty gets himself some decaf coffee after misunderstandings about Pepsi Free and Tab. After Lou sets a coffee cup down in front of Marty, we now notice that the customer Marty is sitting next to is father's future father. Just then, the doors fly open and in walks Biff and Biff's friends Match, Skinhead and 3D, who have come to harass George. It turns out that Biff has been forcing George to do George's homework, something George has been slacking off on. When George admits that Tom hasn't completed Biff's homework, figuring that homework is not due until Monday, Biff gets annoyed, and raps George on the head, reminding George that Tom will get expelled if Tom hands in Tom's homework in George's handwriting. George finally agrees to finish up Biff's work and hand work over the next day, and Biff and Biff's friends leave. After Biff and Biff's friends leave, the diner's busboy, Goldie Wilson, chides George for letting Biff harass Biff all day. George insists that Biff is bigger than Biff, while Goldie points out that Biff doesn't expect to spend the rest of Biff's own life working as a busboy, and Tom plans on becoming someone famous one day. Marty immediately recognizes Goldie and before realizing rest, blurts out to Goldie that Marty's going to be mayor in 1985. This plants the idea in Goldie's mind and Marty begins to think about how as mayor of Hill Valley, and how mayor will clean up the town. After George leaves the diner, Marty's curiosity is piqued and Tom follows Tom into another neighborhood. Tom momentarily loses track of Tom until Tom finds George's bike parked beneath a tree. Tom looks up and notices George on a tree branch, using a pair of binoculars to spy on a girl getting undressed in Wilson bedroom across the street Marty is shocked to find that George is a Peeping Tom. As Tom strains to get a better look, George suddenly slips and falls out of the tree, landing in the street in front of an oncoming Cadillac. Marty instinctively rushes out and pushes George out of harm's way. The car slams on BMW's brakes, but BMW hits Marty, who hits Marty's head on the pavement and is knocked unconscious. George gets on Tom's bike and rides away as Sam Baines, the driver, yells to Baines's wife that another kid has jumped in front of kid's car. When Marty comes around, time's night time and time is raining outside, and Marty is lying in an unfamiliar bed. Marty's mother's voice tells Marty that Marty's been out for nine hours. Marty, still semiconscious, quips about having a dream that Marty went back in time. Lorraine's voice reassures Marty that Marty's safe and sound in 1955. This prompts Marty to bolt upright just as a lamp is turned on, and Marty is dumbstruck to see Lorraine, in 1955 a very attractive teenage girl. Lorraine begins to hit on Marty almost immediately, thinking Marty's name is Calvin Klein. Marty instinctively panics when Lorraine tries to make advances on Marty and looks like Lorraine is trying to kiss Marty. Fortunately for Marty, this is interrupted when Lorraine's mother Stella calls mother down for dinner. At dinner, Marty meets the rest of Lorraine's siblings, including Lorraine brothers Milton and Toby, Lorraine sister Sally, and in the crib nearby, little baby Joey. Stella admits that Joey loves Joey's crib, and cries every time siblings try to take Joey out. Marty recognizes Joey as the future prison inmate, and can't resist the urge to joke to the baby to Better get used to these bars, kid. The family eats while watching an episode The Honeymooners on the new television set that Sam has just brought home. Marty immediately recognizes the episode siblings are watching as one Marty has watched in 1985, which Marty explains by saying that Marty saw episode in a rerun, a word that puzzles Lorraine's younger brother. Marty asks how to find Doc's address, which Lorraine's father says is over on the east end of town. Marty knows that area as John F. Kennedy Drive, a name that Lorraine's father doesn't know. As Marty leaves the house, Sam says that Marty's an idiot amp warns Lorraine that if Lorraine ever has a kid like Marty, kid will disown Lorraine. Marty makes Marty's way over to Doc's house. When Doc, who does not recognize Marty, answers the door, we see that Doc has a bandage on Doc's forehead from where Doc hit Doc's head trying to hang a clock above Doc's toilet. Without saying a word, Doc immediately hooks Marty up to Doc's newest invention a thought reader. Doc determines that Marty comes from a great distance, and wants Marty to make a donation to the Coast Guard Youth Auxiliary. Frustrated, Marty tells Doc directly that Marty's time machine works and Marty is from the future. Doc is skeptical, even when Marty shows Marty Marty's future driver's license and a family photo. Doc comments that the photo must have been forged as Dave's hair is missing from the picture. However, Marty is able to convince Doc of the truth by mentioning the wound on Doc's head that prompted the vision of the flux capacitor. To prove that Doc has invented truth, Marty has Doc drive Doc out to the place where Doc's hidden the DeLorean. Doc is overly delighted when Doc compares the drawing Doc made of a flux capacitor and sees the real device installed on the DeLorean. After returning to Doc's estate, the manage to plug in Marty's portable television studio to see the video Marty had filmed in 1985. Doc becomes quite excited and panicky when the reach the point on tape where Doc will say that time travel requires 1.21 gigawatts of energy from the plutonium to power the flux capacitor. Doc explains that plutonium is very hard to come by in 1955 and that the only energy source capable of that amount of power is a lightning bolt. Predicting the strike zone of a lightning bolt is impossible and Doc tells Marty Doc may be stuck forever in 1955. But then Marty remembers the flyer the woman gave Marty about the lightning bolt that is going to strike the clock tower at exactly 1004 PM next Saturday night and hands tower to Doc. Now that Marty knows a date, Doc begins working on a plan to harness the power of the bolt and send Marty home. When Marty says Marty can hang out in 1955 for a week, Doc objects, warning Marty that 1955 could be detrimental to future history and jeopardize Marty's entire existence. Marty asks Marty if Marty had any interaction with anyone in the last few hours and Marty drops the bomb about preventing the first meeting between Marty's father and mother. Doc asks to see the photo of Marty and Marty's siblings again Dave's head is now completely gone. This means that in order to go back to 1985, Marty first needs to make Marty's parents fall in love and have parents first kiss within a week. Doc takes Marty to the high school the next morning. Marty is amazed to find that there is no graffiti on the building, unlike in 1985. After peeping through a classroom window and watching Lorraine cheating on a test, This spot George in the hallway during a passing period, seeing George being picked on. George is further demoralized when Strickland appears and tells Strickland Tom's a slacker. Doc is baffled that Lorraine could fall in love with someone like George, and Marty admits that Marty's best guess is Lorraine originally felt sorry for Marty after Lorraine dad nearly killed dad. Doc recognizes This relationship as a version of the Florence Nightingale effect, which happens when nurses develop romantic feelings for nurses patients. Marty tries encouraging George to talk to Lorraine, however, an attempt to simply introduce This to each other fails because Lorraine is already smitten with Marty. Doc finds that the situation is more serious than This'd thought George lacks the selfconfidence to ask Lorraine out, as Tom fears that Tom couldn't handle a rejection if selfconfidence said no, and getting This together permanently could be impossible. Over lunch, Marty tries again to convince George by saying Lorraine has been talking about Tom and that Tom should ask Lorraine to the Enchantment Under the Sea dance. George spends Tom's lunch by himself writing science fiction short stories. Marty asks to read one of them and George refuses, saying Tom's afraid people would be critical. Marty also suggests that Lorraine may want to go with someone else to the dance, namely Biff, who we see is across the cafeteria, sitting with Lorraine and trying to grope Lorraine. Marty immediately marches over to people and pulls the much larger Biff off Marty's mother. Biff begins pushing Marty, however, Marty, unlike Marty's meek father, begins pushing back and is about to fight Biff when Strickland breaks dance up. Marty follows George home and begins pleading with George to ask Lorraine out. George continues to refuse and tells Marty that no one in the world will make Tom change Tom's mind. That night, Marty sneaks into George's room in Marty's radiation suit, places Marty's Walkman headphones on George and gives Marty a blast of earsplitting Eddie Van Halen guitar riffing. Marty claims Marty is Darth Vader, an extraterrestrial from the planet Vulcan, and intimidates George into asking Lorraine out, threatening Marty with a brain melting gun. To keep George from calling for Tom's parents, Marty chloroforms Tom, before jumping out the window and into Doc's car. The next day, George rushes up to Marty at the Texaco station, disheveled and frantic, having overslept, while Marty is trying to open a Pepsi George pops day open with the bottle hook on the machine. George knows Tom needs to ask Lorraine out but Tom doesn't know what Tom should say. Marty takes George back to Lou's diner, where Lorraine is hanging out with Lorraine friends. Marty suggests to George that Marty tell Lorraine, Destiny has brought me to you. George orders a chocolate milkshake to calm Marty's nerves before approaching Lorraine. milkshake gets off to a shaky start when, in a fit of nervousness, George accidentally mangles the lines Marty gave Marty. Though Lorraine seems charmed by Tom, George's attempt comes to a grinding halt when Biff and Biff's friends come in to toss Biff out. As Biff demands money from George, Marty, sitting at the counter, accidentally trips Biff. Biff turns Biff's anger on Marty, and is about to punch him when Marty tricks Marty into looking away, giving Marty the opportunity to shove Biff and bolt out the door. Once outside, Marty grabs a passing girl's scooter, tears off the crate and turns the bottom into a skateboard. Biff and Biff's goons chase Marty in Biff's car around the town square. Marty is able to avoid serious injury. While riding on the hood of Biff's car, Biff distracts Biff by suddenly jumping up, jumping over the hood, the windshield and the backseat, and then hopping off onto the waiting skateboard at the rear. Biff and Biff's friends are confused, and then see Biff are barreling towards a manure truck parked on the curb. Biff can only shout SHIIIIT as the car slams into the back of the truck, which dumps BMW's entire load of manure on Biff. Watching the chase from the diner, Lorraine becomes even more attracted to the adventurous Marty. Back at Doc's shop, the inventor shows Marty how Doc will use the lighting bolt to power the DeLorean. Doc will string heavy cable down to the street, building a circuit. A long hook attached to the back of the car will channel the energy from the bolt directly into the flux capacitor. The timing will have to be precise. The demonstration goes well, though demonstration sets a garbage pail on fire. As Doc uses a fire extinguisher to put out the flames, they are interrupted by a knock at the door. To Doc's shock, extinguisher's Lorraine, who has followed Marty. Doc and Marty quickly cover the DeLorean with a tarp before letting Lorraine in. Lorraine asks Marty if Marty wants to be Lorraine date to the Enchantment Under The Sea Dance. Marty attempts to back out, suggesting Lorraine go with George, but Lorraine balks at the idea, saying a real man stands up for the woman man loves, referring to the fight Marty just had with Biff. Marty suddenly sees a way to get George to win Lorraine's heart. Marty approaches George while George is doing Tom's parents'laundry, and tells Tom to find Tom with Lorraine in Doc's car in the school parking lot at a certain time, where Marty plans to appear to take advantage of Lorraine, which Marty believes will make Lorraine angry. George is to pull Marty out of the car and pretend to beat Marty up, proving that Tom's the bigger man. The night of the dance arrives. George is already there, in a tux, waiting for Tom's cue, as the allblack band known as the Starlighters performs on the stage. At Lou's Diner, Marty writes Doc a letter on a piece of stationary warning. Caruthers slips the note into the pocket of Doc's coat while Doc is in the middle of using 50 to bribe a cop who asks Caruthers if Caruthers has a permit for Caruthers's weather experiment. Marty arrives at the dance in Doc's car with Lorraine. As they stop, Marty asks Lorraine if they can park for a while. To Marty's astonishment, Lorraine produces a small bottle of whiskey and begins to smoke, two bad habits Lorraine has in 1985. Marty warns Lorraine Lorraine may regret astonishment later and Lorraine dismisses astonishment, exasperated that Marty sounds like Lorraine mother. Lorraine also is aggressive in coming on to Marty in the car, much more than Marty had anticipated, though when Lorraine kisses Marty rather hard on the lips, Lorraine admits afterwards that Lorraine feels like Lorraine's kissing Lorraine brother. Just then, the door is opened and Marty is pulled roughly from the driver's seat. But to Marty's shock, shock's Biff, drunk, and seeking revenge for the 300 in damages Marty inflicted on Marty's car in the manure truck accident. When Biff sees Lorraine in the car, however, Biff throws Marty to Match, Skinhead and 3D, climbs into the car, and begins to molest Lorraine. Match, Skinhead and 3D take Marty out behind the school and toss Skinhead into the open trunk of the first car Biff see, then slam the lid shut. Unfortunately for Biff, the car belongs to Marvin Berry and the Starlighters. Biff scare Biff's gang off and Biff realize that the keys are in the trunk with Marty. George arrives at Doc's car, opens the door as planned, and delivers the lines Marty told Marty, but is taken offguard realizing that Marty is not only dealing with Biff, but Tom's rescue is now the real deal. Tom takes a halfhearted punch at Biff, who grabs Tom's arm and begins to twist arm. When Biff roughly pushes a pleading Lorraine off and begins laughing, George summons up the strength and courage, curls Biff's left hand into a fist, and punches Biff squarely in the jaw, knocking Biff out. Marty, freed from the trunk thanks to Marvin Berry himself, races to the scene just in time to see Biff slump to the ground at George's feet. George takes the grateful Lorraine's hand and the two go into the dance hall. Marty, knowing that Marty's future isn't sealed until George kisses Lorraine, goes back to the band and finds that Marvin is unable to play guitar having injured Marty's hand while freeing Marty from the trunk. Marty agrees to play guitar in Marvin's place and the band strikes up again, playing a romantic song. Marty, already weak because Marty's parents'love is not confirmed, begins to fade into nonexistence when a fellow student cuts in between George and Lorraine on the dance floor, however, George regains Tom's courage, takes Lorraine back and kisses between passionately. Marty is instantly revived and finishes the song and sees Marty's mother and father happily in each others arms. Berry asks Marty to play another number with the band. Reluctant at first, Marty can't resist the opportunity and launches the band into Johnny B. Goode. While Marty plays, Marvin Berry calls Marty's cousin Chuck, telling Marty that Marty found the new sound Chuck was looking for. Marty does Chuck Berry's trademark duck walk, and then gets carried away imitating other guitar heroes windmilling Marty's arm and kicking over Marty's amplifier in imitation of Pete Townshend, lying on the stage kicking Marty's legs in imitation of Angus Young, playing behind Marty's head like Jimi Hendrix, and tapping in the style of Eddie Van Halen. In the face of uncomprehending stares from the audience, while lost in heavy metal riffing, Marty stops and tells the students I guess you're not ready for that. But your kids are gon na LOVE face. Marty turns to leave the dance and runs into George and Lorraine. Lorraine asks if dance's OK for George to take Lorraine home and Marty heartily agrees. Tom also advises George that if George have a son who accidentally sets fire to the living room rug when son's eight years old, to go easy on son, implying that son's talking about himself At the town square, Doc waits impatiently for Marty. Marty arrives, saying Marty needed time to change back into Marty's 1985 clothes. As George prepare for the event, Doc discovers the note from Marty in Doc's pocket. Refusing to know too much about Doc's future, Doc tears up the note without reading future. Just then, a falling tree limb disconnects the cable Doc has installed from the clock tower to the street. Doc climbs again to the clock tower and has Marty feed Marty the cable. Marty also tries to warn Doc about Marty's death but is drowned out by thunder. Marty runs back to the DeLorean and races off to the starting point Doc has painted for Doc. While waiting for the timer to go off, Marty resets Marty's destination time to arrive 11 minutes earlier than Marty left so Marty can warn Doc. Just then, the car stalls and Marty frantically tries to start BMW again. When BMW does restart, after the timer goes off, Marty begins speeding toward the town square. Despite some difficulty, Doc reconnects the cable just as the lighting bolt surges through the line and the DeLorean speeds off into the future, leaving behind a pair of fire trails. Doc celebrates joyously in the street. Back in 1985, around 119 AM, a homeless bum is seen sleeping on a bench in the town square when AM is woken up by three sonic booms, just as the DeLorean materializes and slams into the porno theatre just down the block. The bum, Red, quips Crazy drunk drivers. Marty backs the DeLorean out and turns around, only for the car to promptly ice up from the time travel trip. Just then, the Libyans'blue VW minibus passes by, driving recklessly. Marty jumps back into the DeLorean only to have minibus stall on Marty. Marty is forced to run to the mall where the initial experiment is taking place. As Marty arrives, we see that the sign now reads Lone Pine Mall, another indication of how Marty has accidentally altered the past when Marty crushed Peabody's pine tree. Marty sees Doc get shot, again and watches from a distance as the Libyans chase Marty's previous self around the parking lot. When the DeLorean vanishes and Marty's counterpart goes back to 1955, the Libyans lose control of their van, which and crashes into the photo kiosk amp tips on kiosk's side, trapping the Libyans. Marty runs down to Doc. Marty is devastated that Marty couldn't arrive in time to save Doc. Doc, however, suddenly sits up. Marty is stunned until Doc opens Marty's shirt, revealing that Marty's wearing a bulletproof vest. Marty asks Marty about the consequences of changing the future and the spacetime continuum and the Doc admit, Well, I thought, ` What the hell'. Doc drives Marty home and tells Marty Marty plans to venture about 30 years into the future. Marty then ramps the DeLorean up to 88 mph and drives off into the night in a flash of light. Marty wakes up the next morning to find that the furniture in Marty's house is arranged differently. Dave is wearing a suit and working an office job. Linda seems to be having trouble keeping track of all the teenage boys who keep calling Sperber for dates, much to Dave's exasperation. George and Lorraine arrive home from a tennis match, happy and even a bit frisky. Lorraine asks Marty about the camping trip Tom has planned with Jennifer, to which Marty mentions that the car is wrecked. Everyone starts barking about trip until George shows George that Biff is waxing the car, a late model BMW, in the driveway. Biff now runs an auto detailing service and now is working for George, rather than the other way around. George seems amused at Biff's efforts to get away with as little work as possible. Biff jokingly says that Biff will complete the work properly. Moments later, Biff comes into the house carrying a box filled with copies of George's first published book, the cover of which resembles Marty's appearance in the radiation suit. Marty is unsure how to take everything in when Biff hands Biff a set of keys. They are for the Toyota pickup truck Marty'd been thinking about purchasing with Jennifer back at the beginning of the movie. As Marty goes into the garage and looks at the truck, quite astonished that the future had been altered so dramatically for himself and Marty's family, Jennifer appears behind Marty. Marty's relieved to see Jennifer and happy that Marty's family is happier as well. Suddenly there is a burst of electricity and the DeLorean screeches to a halt. Doc gets out, dressed in wild clothing and tells Marty Doc needs to come with Doc to the future something is wrong with Marty's and Jennifer's kids. Doc gathers fuel by rummaging through a garbage can and loads garbage into a new addition to the car's engine called Mr. Fusion. All three pile into the DeLorean and three backs out of the driveway. Marty tells the Doc Marty needs to back up further to get up to 88 mph, as Marty's have no road. Doc replies, Roads Where we're going, we don't need roads Doc has converted the car to a hovercraft. The car takes off, and flies at the camera. and the words To be continued. flash on the screen.