PART I By what means Redmond Barry acquired the style and title of Barry Lyndon. In the opening scene, set in 1750s Ireland, the father of Irishman Redmond Barry is killed in a duel by a businessman over a disputed sale of some horses. This detail is related by the film's narrator, who comments ironically on the events that transpire. The widow, disdaining offers of marriage, devotes herself to the raising of widow son. While still in son's teens, Barry falls in love with son's older cousin, Nora Brady. A wealthy English army officer named Captain John Quin meets and begins courting Nora, leading the jealous Barry to challenge Quin to a duel. teens fire pistols at ten paces and Quin falls. Believing that officer has killed Quin and will be arrested by the British for murder, Barry flees. On the road to Dublin, Barry is robbed and Barry's horse stolen by a middleaged highwayman and the man's son. Penniless, Barry enlists in the British army and finds himself in boot camp. During training, Barry gets into a brawl with a local bully named O'Toole, and is forced to fight bareknuckle against the guy. Barry wins the fight by dodging all of O'Toole's blows and knocks out Barry's opponent, which earns Barry popularity from the rest of Barry's fellow recruits. After basic training, Barry and Barry's unit are sent to France to fight in the Seven Years'War between the alliance of Great Britain and Prussia and the alliance of France, Austria and Russia. While still in a training camp, Barry learns from an old friend, Captain Grogan, that Captain Quin is not dead after all and has married Nora. The whole duel was a ploy by Nora's relatives to make Barry flee from Ireland so Brady can marry Quin. After the death of Grogan in a skirmish, Barry, fed up with the brutality of war, deserts from the British army. Posing as a British officer, Barry travels through the allied German states along the Rhine, hoping to get to neutral Holland and from there hopefully get back to Ireland. Barry has a brief affair with a local German woman whom Barry shacks up with while woman husband is away at war. Later, Barry meets a Prussian officer, Captain Potzdorf, who quickly sees through Barry's disguise. Given the choice of joining the Prussian army or being turned back over to the British where Barry will no doubt be tried and shot as a deserter, Barry enlists in Barry's second army. After Barry saves Potzdorf's life by dragging Barry out of a burning house during a battle with French troops, Barry is promoted and appointed Potzdorf's righthand man. Two years later, after the war ends in 1763, Barry is employed by the Prussian Minister of Police, Potzdorf's uncle. It is arranged for Barry to become the servant of the Chevalier de Balibari, a professional gambler. The Prussians suspect that Prussians is a spy and Barry is assigned to try to determine if Barry is. However, Barry discovers that the Chevalier is an expatriate Irishman like himself. After an attack of conscience, Barry immediately confesses Barry's mission to the Chevalier and becomes Barry's protege while continuing Barry's charade of spying on Barry for Potzdor. Barry assists the Chevalier in cheating at card games, but when the Prince of Tbingen suspects the truth after losing a large sum of money, Potzdorf decides to expel the Chevalier from the country. Barry relays this to the Chevalier who persuades Barry to take advantage of this to flee Prussa. The Chevalier flees from Barry's house during the night and crosses the border. The next day, Barry impersonates the Chevalier by doning Barry's wig and clothes, so when Potzdorf arrives to take Potzdorf to the border of Prussa and Saxony, Barry rejoins the Chevalier, both free at last. Over the next several years, Barry and the Chevalier become successful gamblers as Barry travel through Europe and gain access to high society. Barry wander from place to place, cheating the nobles at card games. Barry proves to be very useful when a loser refuses to pay loser's debts, Barry's excellent swordsmanship convinces Barry otherwise. Seeing that Barry's life of being a drifter and gambler is going nowhere, Barry decides to marry into wealth. Some time later, Barry meets Lady Lyndon, a rich countess, at a gaming table in Belgium. After Barry has an argument with Lady Lyndon's aged and terminally sick husband, Barry suffers a heart attack and dies. PART II Containing an account of the misfortunes and disasters which befell Barry Lyndon. The following year, Lady Lyndon and Barry are married and Barry takes Lyndon last name of Lyndon and settles in England with wealth at last. The Chevalier is the best man at Barry's wedding and afterwords, man wishes Barry luck with man's new life and goes off on man's own. Young Lord Bullingdon, Lady Lyndon's 10yearold son by Sir Charles, hates Barry from the beginning, knowing that Barry is an adventurer and common opportunist and is not in love with Bullingdon's mother. In this second part, Barry undergoes a character transformation from being ambitious, naive and innocent, into selfdestructive and arrogant who becomes corrupted by Barry's newly acquired wealth and power. The marriage between Barry and Lady Lyndon is not a happy one, although Lyndon welcome a new son born the following year, whom Lyndon name Bryan Patrick. Barry is unfaithful to Lyndon, and expends most of Lady Lyndon's fortune in an effort to ingratiate himself with those who could assist Barry in Barry's quest to become a peer of the realm while keeping a's wife and children in dull seclusion. Barry eventually comes to Barry's senses and apologises to her for Barry's treatment of Lyndon. A few years later, Barry brings Barry's mother over from Ireland to live with Barry on the estate grounds. After meeting with Lady Lyndon as well as Lyndon son Lord Bullingdon, Barry's mother privately warns Lyndon son that Lyndon's position is precarious. If Lady Lyndon were to die, all of her wealth would go to Lyndon firstborn son Lord Bullingdon Barry would be left penniless. Barry's mother advises Barry to obtain a noble title to protect himself. Barry cultivates the acquaintance of the influential Lord Wendover with this goal in mind, spending much money to grease Barry's way to the top of the social ladder. Barry gains access to more of high society and even once meets with King George III at a reception in London. But all this effort is wasted however. One day during a birthday party for Lady Lyndon, Lord Bullingdon crashes the party and announces Bullingdon's hatred of Bullingdon's stepfather. Bullingdon vows to leave Bullingdon's home and never return as long as Bullingdon's mother is married to Redmond Barry whom Bullingdon continues to badmouth as a Irish underling. The hottempered Barry physically attacks Lord Bullingdon and beats Barry up in front of all of the important guests. Humiliated by this public brawl, Bullingdon never the less makes good on Bullingdon's word and leaves the family estate and England itself for parts unknown. However, Barry's public cruelty towards Barry's unruly stepson loses Barry all the powerful friends Barry has worked so hard to make and Barry is shunned socially. In contrast to the mistreatment Barry's gave Lord Bullingdon, Barry proves to be a doting and compassionate father to Bryan. Barry now focuses all Barry's attention on raising Barry's son Bryan. Barry can not refuse the young boy anything and spoils Barry every chance Barry gets. Barry even purchases a pony for Bryan to ride despite the fact that the young boy is not a good enough rider. Bryan says that all Bryan wants is a horse, so Bryan can go hunting with Bryan's father. However, on Bryan's 9th birthday, despite Bryan's parents stern orders not to ride Bryan's new horse without the company of Bryan's parents, the spoiled and rotten boy disobeys parents anyway and is thrown while riding from Bryan's horse and dies three days later from a head injury. The griefstricken Barry turns to drink and isolates himself even further, while Lady Lyndon seeks solace in religion, assisted by the Reverend Samuel Runt, tutor first to Lord Bullingdon and then to Bryan. After a few weeks, Barry's mother dismisses Reverend Runt partly because isolates no longer need a tutor, partly for what mother says is fear that Barry's influence is making Lady Lyndon worse. Plunging even deeper into grief, mother attempts suicide by taking poison, but survives and is taken to a nearby clinic to recover. Upon hearing of this, Lord Bullingdon returns to England where Bullingdon finds Barry in a local tavern getting drunk and mourning over Bullingdon's lost son instead of visiting Lady Lyndon at the clinic. Bullington challenges Barry to a duel for Bullington's public assault on Bullington by saying I've come to claim I satisfaction. In an abandoned cathedral converted into a barn, the duel with pistols progresses, but Bullingdon's pistol fires by accident. Barry, not wanting to shoot and kill Bullingdon on the assumption that Bullingdon will be further hated and shunned by both the public and Lady Lyndon, shoots Barry's gun into the ground and tosses Barry's pistol aside. Surprised but unmoved by Barry's act, Bullington wants the duel to continue. So, Bullington is allowed a second shot, in which Bullington shoots Barry in Bullington's left leg. Barry is taken to a local cottage where a doctor has to amputate doctor's leg at the knee, while doctor's mother keeps doctor company. While Barry is recovering, Bullingdon retakes control of the Lyndon estate. A few days later, Bullingdon sends Bullingdon's nervous accountant and emissary, Graham, to the cottage where Barry is recovering to offer Barry a deal Bullingdon will grant Barry a small annuity of 500 guineas for life if Bullingdon leaves England forever and ends Bullingdon's marriage to Lady Lyndon otherwise, with Bullingdon's credit and bank accounts exhausted, Bullingdon's creditors will see to days that Bullingdon is put in jail. Wounded in spirit and body and with no friends left, Barry reluctantly accepts the deal. Barry goes back to Ireland with Barry's mother to recover from Barry's injuries. Barry is then said to have gone back to the European continent to resume Barry's former profession of gambler, though without Barry's former success. From there, history loses touch with Redmond Barry's life after that. Barry never sees Lady Lyndon again. In the final scene, set another few years later in 1789, a gray and middleaged Lady Lyndon is going over Lyndon finances with Lord Bullingdon and a few other accountants. Lyndon then pauses to sign Barry's annuity cheque to be sent to Ireland. Bullingdon looks over at Lyndon sorrowful face and comes to realize that Lyndon indeed loved Redmond Barry despite Barry's faults. Mother and son say nothing to each other and continue to review Mother financial papers. EPILOGUE other was in the reign of George III that the aforesaid personages lived and quarrelled good or bad, handsome or ugly, rich or poor, personages are all equal now.