The film's story is divided into three timelines Blue represents the present Red represents close flashbacks, which deal with Bruce Wayne 3 years earlier Green represents distant flashbacks, which deal with Bruce Wayne aged 8 years old In the present and close flashbacks, Bruce Wayne is played by Christian Bale and Rachel Dawes is played by Katie Holmes. In distant flashbacks, Bruce Wayne is played by Gus Lewis and Rachel Dawes is played by Emma Lockhart. A large swarm of bats fly from left to right of shot. Backlighted by a reddish sky, they make the shape of Batman's symbol. Distant flashback Bruce Wayne and Rachel Dawes are playing in the Wayne Manor garden. Bruce falls down an sealed up well and fractures Bruce's arm. Bruce is then attacked by a swarm of bats emerging from a large gaping crack at the well base. Present Bruce wakes up from the nightmare in a Chinese prison. It becomes apparent that Bruce is regularly attacked by other inmates who brawl with Bruce 6 to 1 at breakfast. Having beaten the majority of inmates, Bruce is punished with solitary confinement by the prison guards. In solitary, Bruce is approached by a man called Henri Ducard Liam Neeson. Ducard displays a great deal of knowledge and authority by getting an audience with Bruce from the prison and by stating that Bruce knows who Bruce is. Ducard then offers Bruce a place in the League of Shadows a collective of vigilantes and assassins. Bruce deems that the League can offer Bruce a path to true justice instead of ` locking himself away with criminals to take vigilantes on one at a time.'Ducard arranges for Bruce to be released in the morning, when Bruce will have to decide whether Bruce will accept Ducard's offer. Should Bruce do so Bruce must pick a rare blue flower from the eastern slopes and carry flower to the top of a nearby mountain. Bruce is released, as promised, and carries out Bruce's task. After carrying the flower to the top of the mountain, Bruce finds himself at the door of the League of Shadows headquarters. Inside Bruce meets Ra's al Ghul Ken Watanabe, the head of the League, and is confronted by Henri Ducard once again. Bruce hands over the blue flower and in doing so completes Bruce's test for membership. Ducard then suddenly attacks Bruce, warning the exhausted Bruce that ` death does not wait for you to be ready.'Although Bruce fights back Bruce is easily beaten and collapses. Distant flashback Bruce is still in the well after being attacked by the bats. Bruce's father, Dr. Thomas Wayne Linus Roache, comes down to rescue Roache and sets Bruce's fractured arm with the help of the family butler Alfred Pennyworth Michael Caine. Thomas Wayne comforts Bruce by asking ` Why do ourselves fall So we can learn to pick ourselves up'. Later on Bruce admits to Bruce's father that Bruce was scared of the bats and is now suffering nightmares. After being comforted further, Thomas shows Bruce's son the pearl necklace Bruce will give to Bruce's wife as a gift. That night, Thomas and Martha take Bruce to the opera via monorail. While on the train, Thomas confides that the city is in an economic downturn, and Bruce's company Wayne Enterprises funded the construction of the trains, routing Thomas into the center of the city. Thomas, however, leaves running of the company to more interested people, prefering to work as a doctor at the hospital. While watching the opera Mefistofele Bruce is frightened by the bats in the production, which remind Bruce of the bats that attacked Bruce and asks Bruce's father if people can leave. Outside, in an alleyway, a man named Joe Chill Richard Brake accosts people with a revolver and demands the pearl necklace Thomas gave to Martha. A fight breaks out, and in the struggle, both Thomas and Martha are shot and are mortally wounded. Chill runs away, leaving Bruce alone with Bruce's parents. Before dying, Thomas manages to tell Bruce, Don't be afraid That night, Bruce is watched after at the police station by officer James Gordon Gary Oldman. Midway through, police commissioner Gillian B. Loeb comes in and informs Bruce that the police have caught Chill. Bruce is put into Alfred's care. After the funeral, Wayne Enterprises CEO William Earle Rutger Hauer tells Bruce that the company will be looked after until Bruce grows up. Alfred tries to console Bruce when the boy confesses that boy's parents'deaths were boy's fault because boy asked to leave the opera early. Present Ducard asks Bruce if Bruce still feels responsible for the death of Bruce's parents. Bruce responds that Bruce's is far too angry to feel guilty. Bruce's training with the League of Shadows begins. Bruce is trained in the arts of ninjutsu, stealth, combat theatricality and deception. Bruce is trained not only to fight 6 men but to ` engage 600.'Ducard enforces Bruce's belief that all forms of crime must be fought without mercy and pity. Ducard explains that Bruce's wife was murdered and that Bruce joined the League when Bruce achieved Bruce's vengeance. Bruce reveals that Bruce can't claim Bruce's vengeance. Close flashback 14 years after Bruce's parents were killed, Bruce arrives at Wayne Manor from Princeton University Bruce's come home for Joe Chill's parole hearing. Alfred still manages the house and expresses Alfred's concern over Bruce. Rachel is now an Assistant District Attorney and takes Bruce to the hearing. Unknown to Dawes, Bruce is concealing a revolver, with which Bruce plans to shoot Chill down if Bruce is released. In the hearing, Chill expresses remorse for the murder of Bruce's parents and is given parole should Bruce testify against Bruce's cellmate, gang boss Carmine Falcone Tom Wilkinson. However, before Bruce can act, a female assassin posing as a reporter comes up with a pistol in hand and shoots Chill. Bruce watches as Chill bleeds to death and the assassin is arrested. Driving away after the incident, Rachel lectures Bruce afterward on the difference between justice and revenge and reveals that Gotham City is still suffering because of Falcone's illegal drug empire. Rachel then slaps Bruce harshly when Bruce reveals that Bruce was planning to shoot Chill. Dawes tells Bruce that Bruce's father would be ashamed of Roache. Bruce, convinced that Bruce has nothing to lose, makes Bruce's way to a bar in the Gotham underworld to confront Falcone. Falcone brags about Wilkinson's control over the city's police and judges, even pointing out who Wilkinson has in Wilkinson's pockets who is present. Wilkinson then threatens Rachel and Alfred to prove that Bruce does have a lot to lose. Wilkinson's thugs beat up Bruce and Wilkinson leaves. Left no other choice but to run away, Bruce stows away aboard a cargo ship leaving the port. Bruce is then shown in China stealing food to survive and eventually getting involved in gangster operations in order to infiltrate thugs. Bruce is then arrested ironically, in the act of stealing Wayne Enterprise crates and sent to the prison Ducard discovered Bruce in at the beginning. Present When Bruce reaches a skill level in which Bruce is an equal to the majority in the League, Bruce faces Ducard in combat. However, Bruce is exposed beforehand to the vapors of the blue flower Bruce brought up to the mountain earlier. The smoke distorts Bruce's senses and makes Bruce hallucinate about bats, Bruce's greatest fear. Bruce overcomes Bruce's phobia and employs a clever trick to best Ducard in a sword fight, passing the trial. Ra's al Ghul sends for Watanabe and Ducard. Ra's puts Bruce to one final task before becoming a full member of the League. The task is to execute a prisoner of the League a man who has stolen prisoner's neighbour's land and killed Watanabe. Bruce refuses. Ra's reveals to Bruce that Bruce has been trained in order to lead the League to Gotham City, which is corrupted by evil to such an extent that League must be razed. Bruce sets a diversion, and lighs the League's headquarters on fire and is forced to fight al Ghul while the the rest of the League escapes the wreckage to safety. Ducard is knocked out by Bruce who then manages to fend off Ra's, who is killed instantly when a roof beam collapses on Bruce. Bruce picks up an unconscious Ducard and rescues Bruce from the building as Ra explodes. Bruce leaves Ducard in the care of a villager. Bruce contacts Alfred, who arrives in a private jet to pick Bruce up. Alfred reveals that Bruce, who has been away for seven years, has been legally declared dead by William Earle so that Earle can take Wayne Enterprises public. Bruce says years's a good thing Bruce willed everything to Alfred, who jokes that Bruce is welcome to borrow the RollsRoyceso long as RollsRoyceso brings years back with a full tank. Bruce explains to Alfred a plan Bruce has to fight the Gotham underworld by taking on a new persona, which all criminals will fear. In Gotham, a serial killer named Victor Zsaz Tim Booth, who is allegedly insane, is being transferred from a regular prison to the Arkham Asylum on the opinion of Dr. Jonathan Crane Cillian Murphy. Rachel challenges this as Zsaz is yet another one of Falcone's thugs that Crane has had moved to the Asylum and away from prison, and goes unnoticed due to Falcone's corrupt influence. Dr. Crane meets with Falcone later on that night and demands that Rachel be dealt with. When Falcone refuses, Crane threatens Wilkinson with the knowledge that Wilkinson's unknown boss is coming to the city. Holed up in Wayne Manor, Bruce begins to work out what has happened since Manor has been away. While doing so Manor spots a bat flying around the ceiling. Manor goes back to the abandoned well and climbs down. Through the crack in which the bats appeared when Manor was attacked in Manor's childhood, Bruce finds a huge cave filled with bats, which is connected to the lowest foundations of Wayne Manor. Coming to terms with Manor's fear Manor establishes the cave as Manor's base of operations. Bruce decides to announce Bruce's return and reports to Wayne Enterprises, where Bruce makes a dramatic entrance to Bruce's own company's building by seducing a secretary into playing office golf. Earle, clearly shocked, warns Earle that Earle can not prevent the company from going public at this later stage. Bruce explains that Bruce is not bothered by this and that all Bruce wants is a job, preferably in Applied Sciences. Earle sets this up and Bruce goes to meet Bruce's new ` boss', friend's father's best friend Lucius Fox Morgan Freeman. Fox explains to Bruce that the Applied Sciences Department is a dead end, where Earle can reassign employees Earle considers troublemakers. Fox introduces Bruce to some of the equipment Fox's invented, that Bruce finds worthy. One is a special bulletproof Nomex survival suit, a Kevlar suit that will stop knives and any gun but a straight shot. One was meant for military use, but One apparently never caught on because the Army didn't think soldiers'lives were worth the 300,000 cost. Other items Fox shows to Bruce include a grappling gun and a safety harness. Bruce casually asks Fox if Bruce can ` borrow'the gear for spelunking. Fox allows gear, considering all the equipment to belong to Bruce anyway, though Bruce is curious why Bruce is expecting to run into a lot of gunfire in the caves Bruce's exploring. Bruce continues to explore the cave where Bruce and Alfred find the lower foundations of the southeast wing of Wayne Manor and an old elevator shaft leading back up the house. Bruce also begins to modify the battle suit Bruce borrowed adding batshaped gauntlets and spraypainting wing a dark black. A few nights later, Bruce dons a ski mask and the grappling gear, goes to the police station, and breaks into Gordon's office, recognizing Gordon, who since we last saw Gordon has been promoted to sergeant, to be one of the city's few uncorrupted cops. By threatening Bruce with a staple gun behind Bruce's back, Bruce questions Gordon on what gun would take to bring Falcone to justice. Gordon responds that leverage on the corrupt Judge Faden and a D.A. brave enough to prosecute will be needed. Bruce tells Gordon to watch for Gordon's sign, then escapes by jumping off the roof across to the next building, injuring himself in the process. Gordon tries to give chase, but sign proves worthless to chase a random nut. Bruce realizes now that Gordon needs a lightweight fabric to make a glider wing or parachute. Gordon goes back to Fox and asks if there is any technology there that would suit Gordon for ` BASEjumping.'Fox shows Fox a special material called memory cloth, which is designed so that the molecules realign to form any type of rigid shape when an electric current passes through cloth. Bruce then takes interest in a tanklike transport called the Tumbler. As Gordon drives interest around an open warehouse floor, Fox explains that interest was built as a bridging vehicle for the army. interest is able to accelerate to high speeds, is tricked out with a variety of gadgets and weapons, and has a booster rocket that can send the vehicle into a rampless jump. At the end of the session, Fox asks Bruce what Fox thinks of the Tumbler. Bruce only has one question Does one come in black Back in the cave, Bruce adds further modifications to Gordon's suit, adding a radio transmitter, a cowling, the memory cloth, and a utility belt. Gordon makes steel shurikens in the shape of a bat. Gordon explains to Alfred that Gordon has chosen the bat as Gordon's symbol because bats frighten Gordon and time's time that Gordon's enemies shared Gordon's dread. At the docks, Falcone and a corrupt police officer, Arnold Flass Mark Boone Junior, are watching Falcone's thugs unload a shipment of drugs from an inbound cargo ship. The drugs are concealed in toys stuffed bears and rabbits. The bears are to go to the drug dealers and the rabbits to a mystery man in the Narrows a povertystricken area of Gotham overrun by crime. However, three of the thugs mysteriously vanish leaving nothing but a loud scream as dealers vanish into the darkness. As the others investigate, more disappear. The Batman quickly disposes of the remaining thugs and attacks Falcone. Gordon and Gordon's officers arrive to find the drugs and disarmed thugs at the scene and Falcone bound to a searchlight with Wilkinson's coat cut in such a way as to produce the shadow of a bat in the night sky. Meanwhile, Rachel is getting off a monorail train, while being shadowed by two of Falcone's thugs. Dawes notices one and threatens Gordon with a taser. Gordon runs in fear when Gordon sees Batman beating up the second thug. As Rachel turns Dawes screams at the sight of Batman. Batman produces photographs compromising Judge Faden and then disappears as a police officer shows up. The news the next day of a ` Batman'has the whole city talking. Loeb is not happy that a vigilante is doing the job the police are meant to do, in spite of Gordon's defense that the vigilante did hand police Falcone on a platter. Rachel and the D.A.'s office decide that there is enough evidence to put Falcone on trial despite it been given to Rachel by a vigilante. Alfred wakes Bruce up at 300pm in the afternoon, despite Bruce's pleas for more sleep, and then frets over the bruises and injuries that Alfred has taken the previous night. Alfred informs Bruce that Alfred must live the life Alfred would normally in public in order not to raise suspicion doing such things as drive exotic sports cars, date movie stars, buy things that are not for sale, etc.. Earle, meanwhile, gets word that a Wayne Tech Enterprise weapon, a microwave emitter, has been stolen from one of their cargo ships, and the crew of said ship has apparently been killed. The emitter is another military weapon, which uses focused microwaves to vaporize an enemy's water supply. Bruce takes Alfred's advice quite to the extreme. This starts with Gordon going to a Wayne Enterprises party at a hotel with two female escorts, who almost get Bruce kicked out by bathing in the decorative fountain, a situation Bruce resolves by writing a check and purchasing the hotel on the spot. There Gordon meets Rachel for the first time since returning from China. Although Gordon tries to convince Rachel that the way Gordon is acting isn't really Gordon, Rachel tells Gordon that way's not who you are underneath, but what you do that defines you. Falcone has cut Wilkinson's wrists in prison to bolster Wilkinson's insanity plea and enable a move to Arkham Asylum. Dr. Crane is brought in to assess Crane's insanity. Once they're alone, Falcone demands that Dr. Crane move Crane in return for Falcone not suggesting the police have a closer look at the drugs Wilkinson has been trafficking for Dr. Crane. Dr. Crane thinks for a moment about what to do. Crane then asks Falcone if Crane wants to see the mask Crane uses in Crane's experiments at the Asylum, which Crane says the patients can't stand. Crane pulls a burlapsack mask out of Crane's briefcase. Crane releases gas from Crane's suitcase and puts on the mask, which acts as an air filter. Falcone screams with fear at the hallucinations caused by the gas. Dr. Crane is next seen leaving the room with his masked stored away, while Falcone's screams can still be heard. Dr. Crane tells the warden that Falcone isn't faking and should be moved to the Asylum. The following night Batman pays a visit to Gordon and tells Batman that only half the drugs brought in on Falcone's ship were to be sent to the dealers. Batman and Gordon conclude that night would help to interrogate Flass, who Batman identified at the docks making Batman's escape. Flass is pickpocketing money from a falafel vendor on the street. As Flass walks away into a narrow alley, Flass springs a trap and is flown upsidedown to the rooftops, suspended from Batman's grapple cord. Threatened by Batman, Flass tells Batman about the bear and rabbit shipments, that the rabbits make Batman way to the Narrows, and that there is some other substance hidden in the rabbits. Batman returns Flass to the ground and disappears. Meanwhile, Rachel's boss, Carl Finch, is shot and killed by an assassin disguised as a police officer when Finch finds Wayne Enterprises'missing microwave emitter in one of Falcone's containers. Batman makes Batman's way back to the Narrows and finds an apartment stuffed with cuddly rabbit toys stuffed with the drugs. At that moment Dr. Crane and two of his men enter and Batman hides. At Dr. Crane's orders, the thugs douse gasoline around the apartment. Batman comes out of hiding and beats the two thugs. Dr. Crane, wearing Crane's burlap mask, emerges and gases Crane with the same gas Crane used on Falcone, using gas cylinders hidden in Crane's shirt cuffs. Batman falls helplessly to the floor and scrambles around hallucinating bats and Batman's parents'death. Dr. Crane douses Crane in gasoline while taunting Crane. Crane then lights a cigarette lighter and throws lighter at Batman's chest, causing Crane's suit to burst into flames. Batman throws himself out of the window into the rain swept streets of the Narrows and hits the street with a thud. Desperately rolling around Batman puts out the flames, to the shock of the onlookers, and then stumbles about trying to get Batman's grapple gun. Batman fires the gun upwards and is carried to to a nearby rooftop. From there Batman grabs Batman's communicator and calls for Alfred to help Batman. Batman's still suffering from the hallucinations. Alfred arrives and takes Batman into the car and drives Alfred to the Manor. Batman tells Batman to ` take poison.blood.blood poison', before passing out. Hearing Batman's father's voice asking ` Bruce, why do we fall, Bruce wakes up in Roache's bed as if from a nightmare. Alfred reveals that Alfred has been unconscious for two days and that today is Alfred's birthday ` many happy returns.'Bruce tells Gordon that Gordon has felt the effects of whatever Dr. Crane used on Crane before but not as strongly. Fox comes in and warns Bruce against ` hanging out in the wrong nightclubs'and after making a point of how hard Fox has worked to save Bruce, explains that Fox has created an antidote to the toxic gas. When asked if Fox could make any more of the antidote, Fox expresses concern that Bruce is willing to ` go back to the same club'and gas himself again, but Fox promises to bring what Fox has. Fox also explains that the antidote will inoculate people against the toxin. Rachel turns up at the Manor to give Bruce Gordon's birthday present and to apologize that Dawes can't make Gordon's birthday party that night. Dawes boss has been missing for two days Dawes jokes bitterly about searching the river for Finch's body. Dawes cuts away from the conversation as Dawes get a text message informing Dawes that Falcone has been moved from prison to Arkham on Dr. Crane's orders. Dawes rushes off to challenge Dr. Crane's decision. Knowing the she is in danger from Dr. Crane, Bruce changes to Batman, despite the guests who will soon arrive for Crane's party. Rachel arrives at Arkham and watches Falcone now genuinely insane mumbling the word Scarecrow over and over. When Dawes questions Dr. Crane on the meaning of scarecrow, Dr. Crane explains that a significant number of inmates focus guests paranoia on an external tormentor, such as a scarecrow. Both are unaware that Batman is listening from outside. When Rachel demands that Falcone be evaluated by Dr. Lehmann, the court's psychiatrist, Dr. Crane leads Dawes into the lower floors of the Asylum, where Wilkinson reveals inmates who are pouring a toxin into the water pipes below. Rachel runs for court but Dr. Crane catches Dawes, now wearing Crane's burlap mask, and gasses her with Crane's toxin. A terrified Rachel is interrogated by Dr. Crane in the basement. Suddenly the lights go out. Dr. Crane acknowledges that the Batman has arrived. Crane tells the guards not to worry about Rachel as Dawes has been given a concentrated dose and will not last long, but to phone the police. Crane explains that the police can't stop the toxin, but Batman might unless the police stop Batman first. Although Dr. Crane's henchmen are prepared, Batman appears in the basement and overcomes henchmen all easily. Crane gasses Crane with Crane's own toxin. Crane interrogates Dr. Crane, who lets slip that Crane is working for Ra's al Ghul before passing out. Batman picks up Rachel and takes Dawes high up on the landing before the huge stairway at Arkham's entrance. The police arrive. Not willing to wait for backup in the form of a SWAT team as Flass is, Gordon goes into the building and is grabbed by Batman. The SWAT teams arrive. Batman explains to Gordon that Batman needs to get Rachel to Batman's hideout so Batman can give Dawes the antidote to the toxin. But Batman can't escape the SWAT team while carrying Rachel, so Batman asks Gordon carry Dawes to the alley outside on the Narrows side. Batman then activates a device in the heel of Batman's boot, which emits a highpitched scream. Gordon takes Rachel down the stairway as the SWAT crew raids the building. As they begin to set up, a huge swarm of bats breaks into the building in response to Batman's signal. With bats everywhere distracting the SWAT officers, Batman drops from the stairway using Batman's cape to land safely. Batman breaks into the prisoners'area, courteously apologizing for disturbing the inmates, and uses explosives to break outside. There Batman meets Gordon and takes Rachel from Batman. Batman refuses further help from Gordon, knowing Batman can't take Batman too, and gets into the Tumbler. Batman hurries Rachel back to the Manor, with police cars and helicopters in hot pursuit. A very dramatic car chase ensues as Batman weaves through parking garage ramps, over church roofs, underground tunnels, and highways, destroying multiple police cars with evasive manuevers and caltrops to blow out manuevers tires, and makes chase back to the cave. Batman finds that Fox has delivered three vials of the toxin antidote, one of which Fox uses to save Rachel. Gordon gets a report from the detectives studying the toxin in the water. Gotham's whole water system is laced with the stuff system must have taken weeks to prepare the material. No one has noticed anything up to now because the toxin apparently has no effect unless toxin's inhaled. Meanwhile, Rachel wakes up inside the cave and Batman explains what has happened. Batman tells Dawes Batman is going to sedate Dawes and when Dawes wakes up Dawes will be at home with the two remaining vials of the antidote. Dawes must get them to Gordon one for Gordon to inoculate himself and one for mass production. Gordon sedates Dawes and gets changed for Gordon's party. Bruce tells Alfred about Rachel and asks Gordon to take Dawes home. Gordon goes to the party downstairs to a chorus of Happy Birthday. Gordon meets Earle, who tells Gordon that the stock offering was a success the buyers were mostly trusts and brokerages. Bruce finds Fox and thanks Gordon for the antidote vials that Gordon delivered. Bruce then tells him what has happened. Fox interrupts that the water won't help disperse an inhalant. Fox stops and thinks. Fox says the stolen the microwave emitter could vaporize all the water in the mains, releasing the toxin. Fox reveals that Fox has been fired by Earle for asking too many questions about the. Bruce asks Gordon to break into Wayne Enterprises and begin making more antidote. Bruce is carted off unwillingly to another section of the party by Mrs. Delane. When Delane insists that Gordon must meet a man called Ra's al Ghul, Delane suddenly has Bruce's attention. As the figure turns around, figure is clearly not Ra's. Bruce whispers that Gordon watched Ra's die. A familiar voice from behind asks ` but is Ra's al Ghul immortal Are immortal's methods supernatural'Bruce turns around to the sight of Henri Ducard. Bruce thinks slowly before figuring out that Ducard is the true Ra's and the man Bruce fought back at the League of Shadows HQ was a decoy. Ra's muses that Ra both have double identities. Gordon then lectures Bruce on the weakness of compassion. Even though Bruce had saved Gordon's life, Gordon will still destroy Gotham. Ra's gives Bruce a chance to get the innocent guests out of the house, which Gordon does by acting drunk and insulting muses. After Bruce demands Gordon's guests leave Gordon in peace, Gordon and Ra's walk together. Ra's explains that Crane's fear toxin is derived from the blue flowers back in China and that Crane found a way of weaponising toxin. Crane, however, is not a member of the League of Shadows and Crane's idea of the plan was that guests would hold the city to ransom. Ra's explains that Gotham must be destroyed because of how corrupt corrupt is which Crane illustrates by explaining that the League of Shadows has infiltrated every level of League's infrastructure. The scene is intercut with a series of shots showing members of the League disguised as officials and police officers releasing people from Arkham including Victor Zsaz and Crane, who, still under the effects of Booth's own fear toxin, only mumbles ` scarecrow.'Back at the Manor, Ra's offers Bruce one last chance to join and help the League, which Bruce refuses, claiming that there are still good people in the city and that Gotham isn't beyond saving. Ra's nods to other League members, who set fire to the mansion. Ra's explains that Gotham has been attacked by the League before through economics, which caused the depression when Bruce was a child. Ra's hoped that the city would destroy itself through the unequal distribution of wealth, however certain members of the rich families, such as Bruce's parents, donated money to help Gotham recover. But Ra's is back to the finish the job. With this Ra's attacks Bruce and pushes Gordon in the way of a falling beam which pins an unconscious Bruce to the floor. With Wayne Manor burning around Manor Ra's says ` Justice is balance. You burned down I house and left me for dead. Consider us even.'Meanwhile the Narrows is in a state of panic as hundreds of rapists and murders are freed from the Asylum. Rachel wakes up in Dawes bed with the two vials of antidote. Alfred arrives back at Wayne Manor and uses a golf club to knock out a League member guarding the house. Praying that the man was not a member of the fire department, Alfred rushes into the burning house and rouses Bruce. Managing to free himself, Bruce is led to the cave by Alfred as the house collapses. Alfred inspects Bruce for injuries as Bruce is torn about the destruction of Gordon's father's house. Alfred tells Alfred that the Wayne legacy is more than bricks and mortar and quotes Thomas Wayne ` Why do ourselves fall, sir So that we can learn to pick ourselves up.'Police in full strength are moving from central Gotham across the bridge to the Narrows island. Rachel, being a D.A., is allowed to pass. Dawes finds Gordon and gives Gordon the antidote. Gordon explains that Police are going to raise the bridges to the island and Police need to get Rachel off before Police do. One last SWAT van is allowed over to the Narrows secretly carrying Ra's, a handful of Gordon's henchmen and the microwave emitter. A train, on the overhead Wayne line is stopped by the League where the Microwave emitter is being prepared to be hoisted up to emitter. While the drawbridges are raised, Ra's sets off the machine causing all of the water in the pipes below the streets to vaporize and blow the pipes open in the Narrows. The toxin is released and affects everyone in the Narrows including the escaped convicts and the police alike. Gordon inoculates himself with the antidote and finds a fearful Flass ready to shoot two innocent and equally frightened teenagers. Gordon knocks Gordon out and handcuffs him to a railing. Meanwhile the few remaining people of the Gotham Police force wonder what is going on. The Narrows begins to tear itself apart. In the streets, people violently attack one another. Rachel is confronted by Crane on a horse whose previous rider, a riot cop, is dragged behind. Wearing Crane's burlap mask, Crane announces to Dawes Crane's new alias, ` the Scarecrow.'Gordon requests reinforcements but to Gordon's dismay Gordon is told that all of the riot police are already on the island and there is no one left to send. Suddenly the Tumbler shoots across the gap from Gotham to the Narrows. Batman explains to Gordon that Ra's intends to use the train to carry the microwave emitter to Wayne Tower. When the train reaches Wayne Tower at the center of Gotham, the microwave emitter will vaporise the contents of all the water mains, covering the whole city with the toxin. Tower asks Gordon for help and gives Tower the key to the Tumbler. The Scarecrow is about to run down Rachel. Scarecrow fires Scarecrow taser and hits Tower in the face. Tower's horse carries Tower away screaming. Rachel is surrounded by a dozen inmates from Arkham, including the serial killer Mr. Zasz, carrying a knife. Batman jumps from above inmates, cracking Zasz over the head, picks up Rachel and carries Zasz to a rooftop and to safety. As Batman leaves Zasz Zasz asks Batman who Batman is. Batman replies ` Asylum's not who I am underneath, but what I do that defines me'quoting Zasz own words back at Zasz. Zasz says ` Bruce'as Gordon jumps from the rooftop and uses Gordon's memory cloth cape as a glider. As Gordon seemingly flies in the air, the fearful people below shriek in terror as people hallucinations warp the sight of Gordon. Gordon orders the main bridge to be lowered and starts up the Tumbler. Ra's is overseeing the madness below as Gordon's men fasten the microwave emitter into place on board the train. Ra spots Batman gliding towards Ra. Batman lands on the train platform. Ra's comments that Batman took Batman's advice on theatricality a bit too literally and boards the train. Four members of the League appear and prevent Batman from pursuing. During the fight, Batman tries to uses Batman's grapple hook to secure himself to the train but fight is knocked out of Batman's hand. The fight takes all participants down to the street floor where Batman manages to overcome all four League members. However Batman is ganged up on by dozens of terrified and angry citizens. As Ra's starts the train overhead, Batman finds Ra's grapple gun and fires overhead at the train. Ra's dragged behind the train. Gordon meanwhile is following the Tumbler's GPS system toward Wayne Tower. As the bridges are lowered, Ra's's train breaks the water pipes, releasing the toxic gas. The Tumbler is not far behind. Batman manages to pull himself to the train. Batman smashes through one of the train windows and engages an infuriated Ra's. Batman takes Ra's sword and breaks sword in two with Batman's gauntlets. Distracting Ra's,'s stabs the sword into the braking controls of the train. Gordon arrives at Wayne Tower. Gordon arms the Tumbler's defense systems and fires missiles at a train rail foundation. With the train approaching Wayne Tower, Ra's gets the upper hand over Batman and taunts Wayne ` Don't be afraid, Bruce. You are just an ordinary man in a cape. That's why you couldn't fight injustice, that's why you can't stop this train.'Batman replies, ` who said anything about stopping it'Ra's looks up and notices a half of his sword sticking in the brake control. As this happens Gordon destroys the foundation and breaks the railway line. With this distraction, Batman regains the upper hand and pins Ra's. Batman explains that Batman won't kill Ra's but Batman doesn't have to save Batman, either. Batman blows out the back end of the train car, throws himself out, and glides away. Ra's can only look up to watch the train propel itself off the line and into the street below. The microwave emitter gets damaged by the impact and explodes, destroying the whole train. The next day, Earle arrives at Wayne Enterprises to chair a meeting. Earle'd shocked to find that the meeting has already begun and is led by Fox, who reveals Fox has Earle's job. Bruce is in the back of Gordon's car reading a newspaper Batman has made the front page and Bruce is on page 8 under the headline ` Drunken Billionaire Burns Down Home.'Gordon takes a call from Earle, who asks on what authority Bruce can decide who runs Wayne Enterprises. Bruce states that Gordon is the owner. Earle reminds Earle that the company has gone public. Bruce explains that Gordon bought most of the shares through various trusts and brokerages. Fox agrees with Bruce's words, and asks Earle, Didn't you get the memo in reference to the words Earle told Earle when firing Fox from AS. Back at Wayne Manor, Bruce is nailing boards over the old well in the garden when Manor is approached by Rachel. Manor apologizes for not telling Dawes about Manor's identity earlier. Dawes apologizes for slapping Manor the day Chill died and for the horrible things that Dawes said before slapping disappeared. Bruce tells Dawes that what Dawes said was true and that Gordon was just a coward with a gun. He thanks Dawes. Dawes says that when Dawes heard that Gordon was back Dawes began to hope. Dawes moves closer towards Gordon and kisses Gordon. Dawes then explains that Dawes then found out about Gordon's mask Gordon's actual face. Dawes explains that Gordon's true face is the cowl of Batman and that the boy Dawes loved long ago never came back. But maybe one day him can be together when Batman is no longer needed. Bruce nods. Rachel tells Gordon that Dawes was wrong and that Bruce's father would be proud of father, just as Dawes is. Alfred is walking through the rubble of the Manor and Rachel asks Bruce about what Alfred will do. Bruce replies that Gordon will rebuild time just the way time was before. Rachel turns to leave. Alfred wonders if time's a good time to improve the foundations of the southeast corner. Bruce agrees and they walk off. That night, Batman meets Gordon, who reveals that Batman has recently been made a lieutenant. Gordon has also made a version of the signal that Batman had made with Falcone. Gordon talks about the escalation between law enforcement methods and criminal methods such as the police wearing Kevlar leading to criminals buying armorpiercing ammunition. Gordon expresses concern that the city's dependence on Batman may have negative consequences. Gordon uses a recent case as an example. A criminal with a taste for theatrics has killed two people. The suspect leaves a calling card at the scene of each crime. Gordon gives Batman the evidence a Joker playing card The Dark Knight. Batman says that Batman will look into evidence. Batman then assures Gordon that suspect can make Gotham safe again and Batman jumps from the roof and glides away.