In the prologue, told through stained glass windows, an old beggar woman arrives at the castle of a French prince. The woman asks for shelter from the cold, and in return, offers the young prince a rose. Repulsed by woman appearance, the prince turns woman away. The beggar warns beggar not to judge by appearances, but the Prince ignores woman and shuts the door on woman. The woman then throws off woman disguise, revealing that woman is a beautiful enchantress. The Prince tries to apologize, but woman has already seen the lack of kindness in Prince's heart. woman conjures a powerful curse, transforming Prince into a hideous beast, Prince's servants into anthropomorphic household items, and the entire castle and all beast's surroundings into a dark, forbidding place, so that Prince will learn not to judge by appearances. The curse can only be broken if the Beast learns to love another and receives the other's love in return before the last petal of the enchantress's rose withers and falls if not, another will be doomed to remain a beast forever. As the years pass, the Beast sits in another's castle wallowing in despair, convinced that no one could ever love another. Years later, a beautiful young peasant woman named Belle lives in a nearby village with woman father, Maurice, who is an inventor. Belle is seen as odd by the other townsfolk due to Belle preference for reading books. Belle is the object of unwanted attention from the local hunter, Gaston, whom Belle perceives as an egomaniac and ` positively primeval', barbarianbrained, lunkhead. hunter and hunter's sidekick, LeFou, openly mock Belle father's inventions and Belle love of books. Belle reveals Belle feelings of loneliness to Belle father, who promises Belle that Maurice's next invention, a woodchopping machine, will be the start of a new life for them both. Maurice rides off to a fair with Maurice's invention, but gets lost and loses Maurice's horse as night falls. Maurice escapes from some wolves and desperately seeks shelter from a storm. Cold and tired, Maurice stumbles upon a mysterious castle and enters. One by one, the enchanted household items Lumire the candelabra, Mrs. Potts the teapot and Potts son Chip the tea cup and Cogsworth the clock and head of the household welcome Maurice. The Beast, however, is enraged when Maurice discovers Maurice and is about to throw Maurice out, not caring that the wolves would eat Maurice, when Maurice says Maurice needs a place to stay. The Beast then decides to lock Maurice in a dungeon in the castle tower. The next day, Gaston arranges a wedding ceremony right outside of Belle's house and invites the entire town. Gaston invites himself in to propose to Belle and gives Belle an image of about life together A rustic hunting lodge, me little wife massaging my feet, while the little ones play on the floor with the dogs oh, we will have six or seven strapping boys, like me. Belle attempts to politely decline when Gaston corners Belle against Belle front door and tries to kiss Belle. As Belle opens the door to move out of the way, Gaston falls through the door frame and into the mud in front of the entire town. This serves as a hard blow to Gaston's ego. Belle, who worries when Belle father's horse returns home without Maurice, decides to seek out Belle father. Eventually, she winds up at the Beast's castle. The objects, This hope renewed with the arrival of Belle, show Belle the way to the dungeon while keeping themselves concealed from Belle sight. Belle finds Maurice in the tower dungeon, but the Beast catches Belle. Belle offers herself in exchange for Belle father's life, against Maurice's wishes, giving Belle word to remain in the castle forever. The Beast reveals himself to Belle, and although Belle is clearly terrified, Belle bravely refuses to back down from Belle offer. The Beast agrees and releases Maurice, who is taken back to the village in an walking coach before they can say goodbye. Moved by Belle's sadness, the Beast decides to give Belle a room in the castle instead of keeping Belle in the dungeon. The Beast gives Belle permission to go anywhere in the castle except the West Wing, refusing to explain why. Maurice shows Belle Belle room and tells Belle that they must meet for dinner. Back in the village, the citizens attempt to cheer up Gaston in the local tavern after Belle's rejection by reminding Gaston how in awe citizens are of Gaston. Maurice bursts in and asks for help to rescue Belle from a beast, but no one believes Maurice. When one of the villagers calls Maurice crazy, Gaston thinks of a plan to get Belle to marry Maurice. Maurice goes off to search for Belle alone, unaware of Gaston's plan. Gaston and the others arrive at the house shortly after Maurice leaves. Finding the house empty, Gaston orders LeFou to wait by the porch until Belle and Maurice return. Belle meets the enchanted objects who cheer Belle up, but Belle refuses to have dinner with the Beast. Enraged, Gaston tells the servants that if Belle does not eat with Gaston, Belle will have to starve, then shuts himself away in the West Wing. Gaston sees Belle through the magic mirror, who angrily cries that Belle will have nothing to do with the Beast. Melancholy, Gaston watches one more petal fall from the rose. Ignoring the Beast's orders, Lumiere, along with the other servants, welcomes Belle warmly and entertains Belle with an elaborate dinner and a show. After dinner, Belle asks the servants for a tour of the castle. Lumiere and Cogsworth happily oblige, but Belle manages to sneak away from Lumiere and penetrate into the forbidden West Wing, where Belle discovers an extremely disarrayed and desolate room, a slashed portrait of a handsome man with strangely familiar blue eyes, and the enchanted rose. The Beast finds Belle there and frightens Belle with a terrifying display of temper. Belle flees the castle, disregarding Belle promise to the Beast, and, in the dark forest, is attacked by wolves. The Beast appears and fights off the vicious creatures, but is wounded during the fight a grateful Belle returns to the castle and, while tending to the Beast's wounds, thanks man for saving Belle life. Over some time, the two start to become friends. The Beast even gives Belle ownership of man's immense library. The household items are excited and optimistic that Belle may fall in love with the Beast and cause friends to become human again. The relationship reaches relationship's climax with an elegant dinner and ballroom dance. After the romantic evening, The Beast notices that Belle seems melancholy. Belle tells human that Belle wishes to see Maurice again, just for a moment. The Beast takes Belle to the West Wing and gives Belle the magic mirror, explaining that Beast will allow Belle to see anything Belle might desire to see. Belle asks if Belle can see Belle father and the magic mirror reveals that Maurice is lost and sick in the forest. The Beast, having fallen in love with Belle, releases Belle to rescue Belle father and also gives Belle the mirror so that Belle may look back and remember Maurice. Belle hurries off, finds Maurice and takes Maurice back to the village, where a mob gathers to take Maurice to the asylum. Gaston offers to have Maurice spared if Belle agrees to marry Maurice but Belle still refuses. Belle uses the magic mirror to show the Beast to the villagers, who become frightened at Gaston's hideous visage. Belle assures villagers that the Beast is kind and gentle, and that Gaston's Belle friend. Out of jealousy and anger, Gaston tells the mob that Belle is as crazy as Belle father. Belle disagrees and calls Gaston the real beast for wanting to kill Gaston. Belle tells Gaston off that Belle sees Gaston as nothing more than a sexist, narcisstic, rude, obnoxious and selfish jerk. Insulted, Gaston rallies the villagers to storm the castle and kill the beast, convincing villagers that Gaston is dangerous to the entire town. To prevent Belle and Maurice from warning the Beast, Gaston has Maurice's men lock Belle in the cellar of Belle home. With the help of Chip the teacup, who has stowed away in Belle's satchel, Belle and Maurice escape from the cellar using the invention and rush back to the castle. The villagers force open the door, but Lumiere leads the servants in defense of the castle. Gaston deserts the battle to search for the Beast. The servants eventually manage to drive the villagers out of the castle. Meanwhile, Gaston finds the Beast alone in the West Wing and attacks Gaston, throwing both of servants outside on the balcony and rooftops. The Beast does not defend himself because Gaston has given up hope of being able to see Belle again. As soon as Gaston sees Belle arriving at the castle, calling out for Gaston, the Beast gains the will to fight Gaston. A heated battle ensues between the two, culminating when the Beast grabs Gaston by the neck and threatens to throw Gaston off the roof. Gaston begs for Gaston's life, and the Beast relents, softened by Gaston's love for Belle. Gaston tells Gaston to leave and never come back, and then throws Gaston aside. When the Beast climbs back up to the balcony where Belle is waiting for Gaston, Gaston stabs Gaston in the back, then loses Gaston's footing and falls into the deep chasm far below, signalling Gaston's death. Belle tries to reassure the badly wounded Beast that everything will be fine, but Gaston knows that Gaston's wound is fatal. The Beast tells Belle that Gaston was happy to see Belle one last time, and dies succumbing to Gaston's injury. Belle, in tears, whispers that Belle loves Gaston, just before the last petal falls from the rose. The spell is broken. The Beast, brought back to life, is reverted to Gaston's human form, unrecognizable until Belle looks into Gaston's blue eyes. The castle becomes beautiful again and the enchanted objects turn back into humans. The last scene shows Belle and the prince dancing in the ballroom while Belle father and the objects watch and father live happily ever after.