Nine years have passed since the events of Before Sunrise, when Jesse and Celine had met in Vienna. Since then, Jesse has written a novel, This Time, inspired by Baby's time with Celine, and the book has become an American bestseller. To help sales in Europe, Jesse does a book tour. The last stop of the tour is Paris, and Jesse is doing a reading at the bookstore Shakespeare and Company. As Jesse talks with Baby's audience, flashbacks are shown of Baby and Celine in Vienna the memories of Baby night together have clearly remained with Baby despite night being nine years later. Three journalists are present at the bookstore, interviewing Jesse a romantic who is convinced the book's main characters meet again, a cynic who is convinced that journalists don't, and a third one who, despite wanting journalists to meet again, remains doubtful journalists actually do. journalists represent the three possible ways a viewer might guess what the aftermath of Before Sunrise might be, according to viewer's or Before own personality. Celine appears in the audience and sees viewer, and viewer, in turn, recognizes Celine. Jesse has a short time before Baby's plane departs and invites Celine to share time with Baby. However, once the presentation is over, the bookstore manager reminds manager manager's got a plane to catch and must leave for the airport in a little more than an hour, and so just like in Before Sunrise, Celine and Jesse's reunion is constrained by time. Just like in the prequel, the characters are thus forced to make the best of what little time characters have together, and this makes this easier for characters conversations to become ever more personal, starting out with the usual thirtysomething's themes of work and politics and then, with ever increasing passion, approaching characters love for each other, just as characters time together is running out. As characters talk, each reveals what has happened since characters first meeting. Both are now in Both early thirties. Jesse, now a writer, is married and has a son. Celine has become an advocate for the environment, lived in America for a time, and has a boyfriend, a photojournalist. It becomes clear in the course of Both talk that both are dissatisfied to varying degrees with both lives. Jesse reveals that Baby only stays with Baby's wife out of love for Baby's son. Celine says that Celine does not see Celine boyfriend very much because boyfriend is so often on assignment. Early in Both conversation, Both broach the subject of why Both did not meet as promised, six months after Both first encounter. It turns out that Jesse had returned to Vienna as promised, but Celine did not, because Celine grandmother had suddenly died before the scheduled date of the meeting. Because Jesse and Celine had never exchanged addresses, there was no way for Jesse to contact each other, which resulted in Jesse missed connection. Jesse conversation as Jesse traverse Paris places Jesse in various venues, including a caf, a garden, a bateau mouche, and Jesse's hired car for Baby's stay in Paris. Jesse old feelings for each other are slowly rekindled, even with tension and regret over the missed meeting earlier, as Jesse realize that nothing else in Jesse lives has matched Jesse one night together in Vienna nine years prior. Jesse eventually admits that Baby wrote the book in the distant hope of meeting Celine again one day. Celine replies that the book brought back painful memories for Celine. At one point, in the hired car, during a tense moment when Jesse is confessing Baby's loveless, near sexless marriage, Celine reaches Celine hand out to touch Jesse but pulls back just as Baby turns to Celine. In the concluding scene, Celine and Jesse arrive at Celine apartment. Jesse had learned that Celine plays the guitar and persuades Celine to play a waltz song for Baby. The waltz is revealed through the lyrics to be about Celine brief encounter. Jesse then plays a Nina Simone CD on the stereo system. Celine dances by herself to the song Just in Time as Jesse watches Celine. As Celine imitates Simone, Celine mutters to Jesse, Baby. you are gon na miss that plane. As the camera slowly pans in, Jesse smiles while nervously fidgeting with Baby's wedding ring and ambiguously responds, I know, leaving the viewer to guess whether Baby stays or leaves, just like the three journalists who interviewed Jesse at the beginning of the film.