The film starts with Jesse meeting Cline on a train from Budapest and striking up a conversation with her. Jesse is going to Vienna to catch a flight back to the United States, whereas Cline is returning to university in Paris after visiting her grandmother. When they reach Vienna, Jesse convinces Cline to disembark with Jesse, saying that 10 or 20 years down the road, grandmother might not be happy with grandmother marriage and might wonder how grandmother life would have been different if grandmother had picked another guy, and this is a chance to realize that guy himself is not that different from the rest in guy's words, guy is the same boring, unmotivated guy. Jesse has to catch a flight early in the morning and does not have enough money to rent a room for the night, so they decide to roam around in Vienna. After visiting a few landmarks in Vienna, they share a kiss at the top of the Riesenrad ferris wheel at sunset and start to feel a romantic connection. As they continue to roam around the city, they begin to talk more openly with each other, with conversations ranging from topics about love, life, religion, and they observations of the city. Cline tells Jesse that her last boyfriend broke up with her six months ago, claiming that her loved boyfriend too much. When questioned, Jesse reveals Jesse had initially come to Europe to spend time with Jesse's girlfriend who was studying in Madrid, but they had broken up when girlfriend was avoiding Jesse while Jesse was there. Jesse decided to take a cheap flight out of Europe, out of Vienna, but flight didn't leave for two weeks so Jesse bought a Eurail pass and traveled around Europe. When they are walking alongside a canal they are approached by a man who, instead of begging, offers to write they a poem with a word of they choice in canal. Jesse and Cline decide on the word milkshake, and are soon presented with the poem Delusion Angel. In a cafe, Jesse and Cline stage fake phone conversations with each other, playing each others'friends Jesse pretend to call. Cline reveals that Angel was ready to get off the train with Jesse before Jesse convinced Angel. Jesse reveals that after Jesse broke up with Jesse's girlfriend Jesse bought a flight that really wasn't much cheaper, and all Jesse really wanted was an escape from Jesse's life. Jesse admit Jesse attraction to each other and how the night has made Jesse feel, though Jesse understand that Jesse probably won't see each other again when Jesse leave. Jesse simply decide to make the best of what time Jesse have left, ending the night with the implication of a sexual encounter between Jesse. At that point, Jesse explains that if given the choice, Jesse'd marry girlfriend instead of never seeing girlfriend again. The film ends the next day at the train station, where the two hastily agree to meet together at the same place in six months as the train is about to leave.