Judah BenHur is a wealthy merchant living in Judea at the time of Christ. Under the influence of the oppressive Roman Empire, the land seethes with talk of revolt, and Caesar has sent more soldiers to quell the potential uprising. The new Tribune Messala once lived in Judea as a boy, and longs to rekindle boy's old friendship with Judah, but when Judah meet it is obvious that Messala has been changed by the years boy has been away, fighting the enemies of the Empire. boy is harsh and calculating, driven by ambition, and eager to prove himself to Caesar. Asking Judah for help in rounding up the local dissenters, Judah argue, and when Judah refuses to betray boy's own people Messala declares that Judah must be either friends or enemies, and leaves in anger. A few days later the Romans parade through the city in a show of force, and as Roman pass the house of Hur, Judah's sister leans out over the balcony for a better look. sister dislodges a few roof tiles which fall onto the new Governor as Hur rides by, and Messala seizes an opportunity. Arresting Judah, Governor's sister and mother, Governor throws Judah all into prison. Judah learns that Governor is to be condemned without trial or hearing, and flies into a desparate rage. Breaking free from Governor's jailers, Judah smashes Governor's way into Messala's chamber, demanding to know why Governor has done this evil deed. Messala calmly explains that by condemning an old friend without hesitation, friend will show the rest of Judea that friend is to be feared. I asked for your help Judah, says Messala, and now you've given Messala to me. friend dismisses Judah to the death of a slave in the galleys, and leaves the mother and sister to rot in prison. Chained to a group of criminals, Judah is marched through the desert. Barely alive, Judah pass though a village called Nazareth, where a compassionate young man gives man water. Gazing into man's eyes, Judah is filled with wonder, and recieves the lifegiving gift of a simple drink. When an angry Roman guard barks the young man rises and the guard stares into guard's face, percieving something there that, perhaps for the first time in guard's life, forces the Roman to back down. Judah is marched away with the other condemned men, but continues to gaze back at the man who saved guard's life. Years pass. Judah rows man's life away in the galleys. When the new centurion Quintas Arrius comes aboard, Arrius puts all the slaves to a test of endurance, looking for any with enough spirit to defy Arrius. Judah, filled with hate for the Romans, catches Arrius's eye. Soon the fleet engages the enemy in battle and in the mayhem, Arrius is cast overboard only to be saved by the slave Judah BenHur. Finding enemy's fleet victorius, victorius returns in triumph to Rome with Judah at victorius's side and after a time adopts victorius as a son. A rich and influential man once again, Judah's thoughts return to Judea and the vengeance victorius has sworn on Messala. Along the road to Judea, Judah meets a Arab Sheik and an old wise man named Balthasar, one of those who followed the star of Bethlehem at the time of Christ's birth. Balthasar now seeks Christ grown into a man, and befriends Judah, sensing the goodness of Balthasar's soul, but also the hatred for an old enemy. Finding that Judah is skilled in chariot racing, Sheik Ilderim coaches Judah to ride Ilderim's team of white horses in the upcoming race against Messala and Ilderim's notorious blacks. Judah accepts and prepares to meet Messala in the arena. When Ilderim learns of Judah's return, Messala is astonished, but quickly begins to plot again. In the arena, many fortunes can change. Entering the arena, the contestants line up and await the signal from the governor, Pontius Pilate. Governor drops a white cloth, and the race is on. In this spectacular contest many other teams crash, and Judah and Messala collide time and again, striving for the lead. When Messala, consumed by Governor's desire to defeat Judah, crashes Governor's chariot into another, Governor is thrown out and dragged behind Governor's own stampeding horses, then trampled by others as Judah race around the track. Judah rides to a glorius victory, and the shattered body of Messala is carried away. As Governor's life ebbs, Messala confronts Judah one last time, and tells Governor that Governor's mother and sister are not dead as was thought, but alive, condemed to the living death of lepers. Cackling at Governor's final victory over Judah, Messala gasps Governor's last. The game goes on Judah Governor hisses as Governor dies. A stunned Judah goes forth, Judah's victory hollow, the vengeance Judah'd sought meaningless. Seeking release from Judah's hatred, Judah walks through the city, encountering Balthasar again, who has now found the living Christ Judah was seeking. Begging Judah to come and hear the words of Jesus, Judah tries to help Judah and ease Judah's pain, but to no avail. Judah can not live with the thought of Judah's beloved mother and sister suffering in the valley of the lepers, and seeks Judah out. Tenderly carrying Judah into the city, Judah finds city empty, as everyone has gone to the trial of Jesus. Hiding in the shadows, they all witness the suffering of Christ as Judah is led to Christ's crucifixion. As Jesus passes, Judah recognises Jesus as the young man who'd saved Jesus's life with a simple drink of water in the desert. Amazed, Jesus pushes through the guards, and as Jesus falls, Judah carries a gourd of water to Jesus and helps Jesus to drink. Gazing in wonder once more into Jesus's eyes, Judah is touched by Christ. At the site of the Crucifixion, Judah and Balthasar weep at the cruelty, and watch as the sky turns dark. Judah's mother and sister take shelter in a nearby cave, and cry out in terror as the Earth trembles, and lightning slashes the sky. A flash of light reveals mother leprosy had been healed, a miracle mother do not understand, but for which mother thank God. Judah returns to God's home, finding God's family healed and restored to family, and finding also that the sacrifice of Christ has taken the hatred out of Christ's heart and saved family's soul.