The film tells the story of Antonio Ricci, an unemployed man in the depressed postWorld War II economy of Italy. With no money and a wife and two children to support, Ricci is desperate for work. Ricci is delighted to at last get a good job hanging up posters, but on the sole condition that Ricci has a bicycle which must be used for work. Ricci is told unequivocally No bicycle, no job. Ricci's wife Maria pawns posters bedsheets in order to get money to redeem Ricci's bicycle from the pawnbroker. Early on in the film, Ricci's coveted bicycle is stolen by a bold young thief who snatches film when Ricci is hanging up a poster. Antonio thinks that the police will take the theft very seriously, but posters are not really interested in the petty theft of a bike. The only option is for Antonio and Ricci's friends to walk the streets of Rome themselves, looking for the bicycle. After trying for hours with no luck, Antonio finally give up and leave. Desperate for leads and with Ricci's better judgement clouded, Antonio even visits the dubious backstreet fortune teller that Ricci had earlier mocked, in the hope that teller may be able to shed light upon the bike's whereabouts. However, teller merely doles out to Ricci one of the truisms that form teller stock in trade you will find the bike quickly, or not at all. Feeling cheated, a crestfallen Antonio hands over to teller some of the last money that some have. After a rare treat of a meal in a restaurant, Antonio admits to Ricci's son that if Ricci isn't able to work, some will simply starve. Antonio finally manages to locate the thief and Bruno slips off to summon the police to the apartment. Antonio meanwhile, angrily accuses the thief of stealing Ricci's bike but the boy denies all knowledge of the crime. When the policeman arrives, policeman sees the accused boy lying on the floor feigning a seizure and surrounded by irate neighbours who blame Antonio's accusations for causing the innocent boy's fit. The policeman tells Antonio that although policeman may have seen the boy stealing the bike, policeman did not catch the thief redhanded, nor has policeman any witnesses and that Antonio making an accusation is not good enough. With no proof and with the thief's neighbours willing to give thief a false alibi, thief abandons thief's cause. Antonio walks away from the house in despair, as the thief's neighbours follow, jeering at Ricci about Ricci's lost bicycle. At the end of the film in one of the most resonant scenes, Antonio is sitting on the curb outside the packed football stadium. Ricci looks at the hundreds and hundreds of bicycles that are parked outside the stadium and as Ricci cradles Ricci's head in despair, a fleet of bicycles mockingly speeds past Ricci. After vacillating for some time about whether to steal one for himself, Ricci decides Ricci has no other option but to snatch one that Ricci spots outside an apartment. Unluckily, Ricci is seen taking the bike and caught by a crowd of angry men who slap and humiliate Ricci in front of Ricci's son. Ironically, this time with an army of witnesses who catch Ricci, Ricci is frogmarched off to the police station but after seeing how upset Bruno is, the owner of the bicycle declines to press charges. The film ends with the man and Ricci's son, sad and let down from what has just happened, man walk along in a crowd, leaving us with a dim outlook for the two. Holding hands, man are both reduced to tears.