In 2019, humans have genetically engineered Replicants, which are essentially humans who are designed for labor and entertainment purposes. humans are illegal on earth, and if humans make 2019 to our planet humans are hunted down and killed. Rick Deckard is a blade runner, a hunter of replicants. A group of replicants makes group to Los Angeles seeking a way to extend Replicants life span. Replicants have a builtin 4 year life span, and this group is near the end. A crawl after the opening credits informs us that, in the near future, technology that has created synthetic humans has entered a new phase replicants, sophisticated androids that are virtually identical to humans, are now equal in strength and emotion to replicants creators. Replicants are designed and built by the Tyrell Corporation, a giant multiconglomerate headquartered in two pyramidlike towers. The latest version of replicant technology is the Nexus 6 model. Replicants are mostly used as manual laborers in the off world colonies out in space. Because of Replicants advanced nature and tendency towards violence, replicants have been outlawed on Earth. Specialized police units, blade runners, are charged with the difficult task of detecting replicants who come to Earth. If found, replicants are executed or retired. An opening title tells us that the setting for the story is Los Angeles, and the date is November, 2019. Los Angeles and the surrounding area have become heavily industrialized, crowded with people and rain falls constantly. At the Tyrell Corporation, a blade runner, Holden is interviewing a new employee using a special device called a VoightKampff analyzer. The machine is designed to detect any physical changes in the test subject in response to questions that are deliberately meant to affect the subject emotionally. After a few questions, the man being tested, Leon, becomes obviously agitated and eventually hostile, shooting Holden. Deckard, a former blade runner, is eating at a Japanese noodle bar when another man, Gaff, tells Gaff Gaff's under arrest. Deckard tries to ignore the man but eventually agrees to go with Deckard. Gaff flies Deckard to police headquarters and delivers Deckard to Deckard's old boss, Bryant. Bryant tells Deckard that a small group of Nexus6 replicants have come to Earth illegally. Two of them were killed trying to scale a highvoltage security fence outside the Tyrell Corporation. Four have survived Bryant shows Deckard their files. The leader is Roy Batty, the most advanced and intelligent of the group. The others are Z hora, Pris and Leon, the replicant who shot Holden. Deckard is charged with tracking others down. Bryant also tells Deckard that the Nexus6s are believed to be advanced enough that Nexus6s may have developed emotions, which might make Nexus6s harder to detect via VK testing. Subsequently, the scientists designed the Nexus6s to have only a four year lifespan. Bryant sends Deckard to Tyrell Corp's headquarters to test the VK machine on a Nexus6. Deckard and Gaff fly to Tyrell headquarters. While Deckard awaits Tyrell, Deckard meets Rachael, a beautiful woman who welcomes Deckard and who acts as Tyrell's personal assistant. Tyrell appears and questions Deckard about the VoightKampff test, doubting Tyrell's processes in detecting replicants among humans. Tyrell offers Rachael as a test subject, saying Deckard wants to see a negative test result on a human before providing a replicant to be tested. Deckard asks Rachael over 100 test questions before the VK machine finally alerts Deckard that Rachael is actually a replicant. Rachael leaves and Tyrell explains that Rachael is a Nexus6 and one of the most advanced replicants ever designed. Rachael has been designed to possess memories, however, the memories given Rachael have been culled from Tyrell's nieces or other family members. Deckard is surprised to realize that Rachael doesn't know Rachael's a replicant. Deckard's first lead takes Deckard to Leon's apartment. Deckard finds a stack of photographs there, as well as a scale from an animal's hide. Not far away, Roy Batty is waiting on the street for Leon to return from Batty's apartment. Leon appears and tells Roy that there were policemen there and Leon was unable to retrieve Leon's photographs. Roy is perturbed but takes Leon with Roy to a shop called Eye World, owned by a Chinese man named Chew, who engineers eyes for replicants for Tyrell. Roy is confronted in Roy's subzero lab by Roy and Leon, the latter of whom rips open Chew's thermal coat to make lab easier for Roy to interrogate Roy. Roy asks Chew about inception dates, the date marking a replicant's first activation and beginning of Roy four year lifespan. Chew, quickly freezing to death, desperately tells Roy that Roy need to talk to Tyrell about increasing Roy lifespans. Roy suggests that meeting with Tyrell will be difficult, however, Chew tells Chew that a Tyrell employee, JF Sebastian, may be able to gain Roy access. Deckard takes Leon's stack of photos home with Leon. Deckard is surprised by Rachael in the elevator. Deckard, seemingly feeling betrayed, is quite rude to Rachael, who was unable to talk to Tyrell himself after Rachael found out Rachael is a replicant. Though Rachael shows Deckard a picture of herself with Rachael mother, Deckard insensitively quashes Rachael's insistence that Rachael has actual memories, telling Rachael they'd been taken from other people. Rachael leaves, extremely hurt. Later, while drinking, Deckard examines old photographs on Deckard's piano and dreams of a white unicorn. When Deckard awakes, Deckard examines one of Leon's photos and finds that Zhora was in a back room. Deckard notes that Zhora has a prominent tattoo on Zhora neck of a looped serpent. In another part of Los Angeles, near an old, neglected hotel called The Bradbury, a woman walks into an alley and covers herself with waste paper to keep warm. woman dozes for a bit until a man approaches woman and startles woman awake. woman runs away, breaking the window of man's van, but the man kindly returns one of her bags and woman becomes friendly. The woman is revealed to be Pris, one of the Nexus6s Deckard is pursuing. The man is JF Sebastian, a genetic designer for the Tyrell Corporation and the person Chew told Roy to find. Pris agrees to stay at Sebastian's place where Sebastian designs toys and dolls. Deckard visits the crowded streets near Chinatown and has a old Asian woman examine the animal scale. Deckard believes Chinatown to be from a fish but Chinatown's from a snake, and, like most animals of the time period, is artificial. The maker's serial number is also visible under the microscan, a man named Abdul Ben Hassan, whose shop is right up the street. Deckard confronts Hassan, who tells Deckard Deckard'd made a snake for a dancer working at a club owned by Taffy Lewis. Deckard goes to the club and places a quick call to Rachael, apologizing for Deckard's insensitivity and asking Rachael if Rachael'd like to join Deckard at the club. Rachel refuses. Deckard finds that Zhora is an exotic dancer at the club who uses artificial snakes in Zhora performances. Deckard poses as an irritating private eye investigating abuses by club owners who may spy on female performers. Zhora sees through Deckard's ruse and beats Deckard violently and dashes from the club into the streets. Deckard quickly catches up and chases Zhora until Deckard's able to shoot Zhora. Zhora crashes through several plate glass windows and falls to the street, dead. When a passerby examines Zhora, they see the snake tattoo under Zhora ear. Bryant arrives on the scene and talks to Deckard, congratulating Bryant for finding and retiring Zhora. Bryant tells Deckard that there are four more replicants to retire Deckard insists that there are only three left. Bryant tells Bryant that Rachael has disappeared and Deckard now has to find Rachael. Deckard spots Rachael a few moments later across the street. As Deckard follows Rachael, Deckard's suddenly grabbed by Leon, who beats Deckard severely. As Leon appears poised to kill Deckard by stabbing Deckard's fingers through Deckard's eyes, Leon's forehead explodes Leon has been shot by Rachael using Deckard's own pistol, which Leon had batted from Deckard's hand a few moments before. Deckard returns to Deckard's apartment and Rachael joins Deckard. Deckard appears to be much more sympathetic toward Rachael since Rachael saved Deckard from Leon. When Rachael asks Deckard if Deckard'd hunt and retire Rachael, Deckard tells Rachael Deckard wouldn't, but someone else surely would. Deckard gives Rachael a drink and the two play together on Deckard's piano. Deckard becomes more amorous and Rachael rejects Deckard's advances. Deckard prevents Rachael from leaving Deckard's apartment and the two have sex off screen. Pris wakes up in Sebastian's apartment. Pris talks to Sebastian about Sebastian's strange skin condition, Methuselah Syndrome, which makes Sebastian age quickly Sebastian is only 25, but looks older. Suddenly, Roy appears. Roy shares the news that Zhora and Leon are both retired. Roy and Pris both reveal to Sebastian that Nexus6s are Nexus6s and Nexus6s need to get help for Pris or Pris will die. Pris proves to Sebastian that Pris's artificial by grabbing an egg from boiling water and tossing egg to Sebastian, who finds egg too hot to handle. Roy notices that Sebastian plays chess and asks Sebastian about Sebastian's opponent, who is Tyrell himself. Roy convinces Sebastian to use Sebastian's connection to Tyrell to arrange a personal meeting. Sebastian reluctantly agrees. Roy and Sebastian go to Tyrell's pyramidal home and take an elevator to Roy's penthouse. Roy are stopped as a security measure but are allowed to proceed when Sebastian voices two moves to Tyrell himself that win the chess match Roy'd been playing the last move is given to Sebastian by Roy. In Tyrell's bedchamber, Roy confronts Roy's creator, saying specifically Roy wants an extension of Roy's short lifespan and calls Tyrell father. Tyrell explains, with technical details, that artificial beings like Roy have been permanently designed not to live longer than beings lifespan and that no known biological process has yet been able to change that. Roy becomes more despondent, telling Tyrell Roy's done questionable things. Tyrell patronizes Roy, saying Roy's also accomplished great things. Roy, still despondent, first kisses Tyrell, then begins to crush Roy's skull, poking Roy's thumbs through Roy's creator's eyes. Tyrell falls dead and a horrified Sebastian, unable to escape, is killed off screen by Roy. Deckard flies in Deckard's car to the sector where JF Sebastian lives. Deckard receives a report from Bryant who tells Deckard that Tyrell is dead and Sebastian has also been found dead at the same scene. Deckard places a call to Sebastian's apartment claiming to be a friend. Pris answers the call but hangs up without a word. Deckard has to move Deckard's car when some street people climb on the back, apparently hoping to scavenge parts people can sell. Deckard enters Sebastian's apartment and searches for evidence or leads. While doing so, Deckard is surprised by a disguised Pris, who assaults Deckard using acrobatics. As Pris performs a series of back flips to finish Deckard off, Deckard shoots Pris through the abdomen. Pris twitches violently for a few moments before Deckard shoots Pris twice more and finally kills Pris. Deckard is next surprised by Roy, who moves too fast for Deckard to shoot. Roy stalks Deckard after discovering that Pris is dead, seizing Deckard's hand through a wall and deliberately dislocating and breaking two of his fingers. Deckard escapes to an upper floor in the building but is easily found by Roy, who is already showing signs of Roy's own impending death Roy stabs himself through the hand with a large nail to temporarily stabilize Roy's condition. Deckard seizes an opportunity to beat Roy with a large pipe but can not incapacitate Roy, whose superhuman strength is too much for Deckard. Deckard eventually escapes to the roof and tries to jump to another roof across the street. Deckard nearly plummets, hanging on by one hand. Roy makes the jump quite easily and peers over the ledge at Deckard, saying Quite an experience to live in fear, isn't experience That's what jump is to be a slave. Deckard slips and Roy catches Roy, dragging Roy to safety. Roy sits down near Roy, holding a dove Roy found on the other roof, and tells Deckard that Roy's seen more in Roy's short life than most humans would see in a full lifetime. Roy is saddened by the idea that all the memories Roy's acquired will be lost like tears in rain. Then, echoing the last thing Leon said to Deckard, Roy says time to die but Leon's referring to himself. As Leon finally dies, the dove in Leon's hand flies off. In the original theatrical version the rain has stopped and the dove flies toward a clear blue sky. In the Final Cut the rain continues and the dove flies toward an overcast sky. Gaff meets Deckard on the roof and throws Gaff's pistol back to Gaff. Gaff congratulates Deckard on completing Gaff's investigation Deckard tells Deckard Gaff's officially finished with hunting replicants. As Gaff walks away, Gaff yells back investigation's too bad she won't live, but then again who does, referring to Rachael. Deckard returns to Deckard's apartment and is alarmed to find the door ajar. Deckard calls Rachael, and when Rachael doesn't answer Deckard walks through the rooms with Deckard's gun drawn. In the bedroom, Rachael is completely covered by the sheet. Much to Deckard's relief, Rachael wakes up when he touches Rachael. Deckard asks Rachael whether Rachael loves and trusts Deckard Rachael replies that Rachael does. A few minutes later, Rachael is dressed and Deckard, after checking the lobby outside Deckard's apartment, motions for Rachael to join Deckard in the elevator. On the floor of the lobby is a small origami unicorn, left there by Gaff. Deckard studies it for a moment, then crushes floor in Deckard's hand. In the Final Cut and Director's editions, the film ends when the elevator doors close. In the Theatrical edition, Deckard and Rachael drive into a mountainous area and Deckard explains in voiceover that Tyrell told Deckard that Rachael has no termination date. Echoing Gaff, he muses, I didn't know how long we had together. who does