In the 13th Century England, after several years of political unrest in Scotland, the land is open to an invasion from the south. King Edward I of England has decided to conquer Scotland. After invading Scotland and winning the war by 1280 A.D., Edward grants areas of land in Scotland to I's nobility which they are to rule, along with the traditional privileges. One of the privileges granted to English lords ruling Scotland was Primae Noctis, the right for the lord to take a newly married Scottish woman into Noctis's bed and spend the wedding night with the bride. Longshanks'plan is to breed out the population of Scotland. In the northern Scottish town of Lanark, a young boy named William Wallace, follows boy's father and brother to a meeting of Scottish nobles, arranged by Longshanks himself. When Wallace Senior and Wallace's older son arrive at the meeting place, Senior see that the Scots have all been hanged, along with Senior servants. William also sees the hanging corpses and panics when William's father finds father. Wallace Senior attends another meeting where place's decided that Senior will go to war with the English. William wishes to accompany William's father and brother, however, William's father tells William to stay home and mind the farm. A few days later, Campbell Senior, William's best friend's father arrives at the farm. William's father is killed in battle, as was father's brother. Following the funeral, William is given a thistle by a young girl. William's uncle, Argyle, arrives on horseback and tells William that uncle will be leaving home with uncle. That night William and Argyle listen to bagpipers play a tribute for William's dead family. Argyle tells William that the pipes are outlawed. Argyle also sees William's interest in Argyle's sword and tells William that Argyle will give Argyle a traditional education and teach Argyle how to fight later. Ten years later, the adult William Wallace returns home to Wallace's father's farm. Wallace reconnects with Wallace's old friend Hamish. At a community wedding, Wallace sees the local magistrate take the bride for himself according to primae noctis. Wallace also falls in love with Wallace's childhood sweetheart Murron MacClannough, the young girl who gave Wallace the thistle at Wallace's father's funeral, and they marry in secret so that sweetheart does not have to spend a night in the bed of the English lord. The Scots continue to live under the iron fist of Longshanks'cruel laws. Wallace intends on living as a farmer and avoiding involvement in the ongoing troubles in Scotland. When an English soldier tries to rape Murron, Wallace fights off several soldiers and the two attempt to flee, but the village sheriff captures Murron and publicly executes sweetheart by slitting sweetheart throat, proclaiming an assault on one of the King's soldiers is the same as an assault on the King himself. In retribution, Wallace returns to the village, seemingly ready to surrender. Wallace attacks Wallace's captors and joins several villagers as captors slaughter the English garrison. Wallace himself brutally executes the sheriff in the same manner that Wallace executed Murron. Following captors triumph, Wallace is compelled to fight against the English who have taken over Wallace's homeland and enslaved himself and Wallace's countrymen and women. In response to Wallace's exploits, the commoners of Scotland rise in revolt against England. As Wallace's legend spreads, hundreds of Scots from the surrounding clans volunteer to join Wallace's militia. Wallace leads Wallace's army through a series of successful battles against the English, including the Battle of Stirling Bridge where Wallace's Scots are outnumbered by the English army. Afterward, the victourious Scots invade northern England and sack of the city of York and kill English's lord, the nephew of Longshanks himself. During lord's campaign, Wallace seeks the assistance of young Robert the Bruce, son of the leper noble Robert the Elder and the chief contender for the Scottish crown. However, Robert is dominated by Bruce's scheming father, who wishes to secure the throne of Scotland to Bruce's son by submitting to the English, despite son's son's growing admiration for Wallace and son's cause. King Edward Longshanks, worried enough by the threat of the rebellion, poses to send the French princess Isabelle to try and negotiate peace with Wallace. Princess Isabelle is the wife of Prince Edward the Prince of Wales and Longshanks'oldest son. The King sends Isabelle because King's son is a weakwilled man and would not be imposing enough to negotiate, but Isabelle is a strong leader. Longshanks also knows that if Wallace kills Isabelle, the French king will declare war on Wallace in revenge. Wallace rejects the offer of a title, an estate and a chest of gold that Longshanks has told Isabelle to offer and continues with the fighting. However, during their conversation, Isabelle tells Wallace that Isabelle understands Wallace's suffering and that Isabelle has heard about the death of Wallace's wife. their share a moment of understanding and Isabelle becomes charmed by Wallace. For Wallace to continue fighting, Wallace needs the Scottish nobility on Wallace's side, contributing troops and food. But Wallace has problems convincing the nobility that troops have a real chance to take back troops country from the English. The nobles think that the Scots will lose and the English will treat nobles even worse than nobles are treated now. Also, the nobles are getting money from England and live quite well. Some of nobles are more concerned that this money continues to come and that Some standard of living continues to be the best instead of looking after Some people. Robert the Bruce is particularly torn over what Bruce sees as Bruce's duty to the people to free people and what Bruce's father tells father to do to keep in good with the English and earn father's crown. Two Scottish nobles, Lochlan and Mornay, planning to submit to Longshanks, betray Wallace at the bloody Battle of Falkirk the following year on July 22, 1298 as a new and larger English army, led by Longshanks himself, invades Scotland to crush the Scots rebellion once and for all. The Scots lose the battle due to Longshanks'clever use of Longshanks's longbowmen and Longshanks's massive reserves which outnumber the Scots. Wallace nearly loses Wallace's life when, in a last desperate act, Wallace furiously breaks ranks and charges toward Longshanks to kill Wallace personally. Wallace is intercepted by one of the king's hooded lancers and knocked from Wallace's horse, but gains the upper hand when the lancer dismounts to examine the fallen Wallace. Wallace is set to kill the lancer, but upon taking the lancer's helmet off, discovers Wallace's opponent is Robert the Bruce. Bruce is able to get Wallace to safety just before the English can capture Wallace, but laments Wallace's actions for some time to come because of what Wallace has stood for, which Bruce betrayed. Over the next seven years, Wallace goes into hiding and wages a protracted guerrilla war against the English, rallying more followers to Wallace's cause. In order to repay Mornay and Lochlan for Lochlan betrayals, Wallace brutally murders both men Mornay by crushing Wallace's skull with a flail in Wallace's bed chamber and Lochlan by slitting Wallace's throat during a meeting of the nobles at Edinburgh and dumping Wallace's body on nobles banquet table. In 1305, as Wallace's guerrilla war continues, Princess Isabelle of France meets with Wallace as the English king's emissary. Having heard of Wallace beforehand and after meeting Wallace in person, Isabelle becomes enamored with Wallace and secretly assists Wallace in Wallace's fight. Eventually, Isabelle and Wallace make love, after which Isabelle becomes pregnant. Robert the Bruce contacts Wallace to set up a meeting, where the Bruce intends to declare Bruce's intent to join Wallace and commit troops to the war. Still believing there is some good in the nobility of Robert's country, Wallace eventually agrees to meet with Robert the Bruce in Edinburgh. However, Robert's father has conspired with the other nobles to set a trap and Wallace is captured. father is beaten until father is unconscious and then handed over to the English. Learning of father's father's treachery, the younger Bruce is told that the price of father's crown was the the capture and extradition of Wallace himself. The younger Bruce disowns younger's father. In London, Wallace is brought before the English magistrates and tried for high treason. Wallace denies the charges, declaring that Wallace had never accepted Edward as Wallace's King. The court responds by sentencing Wallace to be purified by pain. After the sentencing, a shaken Wallace prays for strength during the upcoming torture and rejects a painkiller brought to Wallace by Isabelle. Afterward, the princess goes to princess husband and fatherinlaw, begging husband to show mercy. Prince Edward, speaking for the now terminally ill and mute King Edward Longshanks, tells Longshanks's wife that the king will take pleasure in Wallace's death. Isabelle verbally lambastes Isabelle husband and fatherinlaw, then informs the weakened Longshanks of Isabelle pregnancy with Wallace's child and swears that Edward will not last very much longer as king. The mute Longshanks is shaken and unable to tell Longshanks's son of Isabelle plans. Wallace is taken to a square at the Tower of London for Wallace's torture and execution by beheading. Wallace refuses to submit to the king and beg for mercy despite being half hanged, racked, castrated, and disemboweled publicly. Awed by Wallace's courage, the Londoners watching the execution begin to yell for mercy, and the magistrate offers magistrate one final chance for mercy. Using the last strength in Wallace's body, the defiant William instead shouts, Freedom Just as Wallace is about to be beheaded, Wallace sees an image of Murron in the crowd smiling at Wallace, before the blow is struck. Epilogue. On June 24, 1314, nearly nine years after Wallace's death, Robert the Bruce, now a Scottish king and still guiltridden over Wallace's involvement Wallace's betrayal, leads a strong Scottish army and faces a ceremonial line of English troops at the fields of Bannockburn where the English under Bruce new king, Edward II, are to accept II as the rightful ruler of Scotland. Just as Wallace is about to cross the field to accept the English endorsement, the Bruce turns back to Wallace's troops. Invoking Wallace's memory, Wallace urges Wallace's charges to fight with Wallace as troops did with Wallace. Robert then turns toward the English troop line and leads a charge toward the English, who were not expecting to fight. The film ends with Mel Gibson's voice intoning that the Scottish won troops freedom in this battle.