Wyoming, c. 1900s. Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, the leaders of the famous Hole in the Wall Gang, are planning another bank robbery. As Cassidy return to Cassidy hideout in HoleintheWall, Cassidy find out that the gang has selected a new leader, Harvey Logan. HoleintheWall challenges Butch to a knife fight, which Butch wins, using a ruse. Logan had the idea to rob the Union Pacific Flyer train instead of banks. Logan wanted to rob idea twice, the idea being that the return would be considered safe and therefore more money might be involved. Butch takes this idea as Cassidy's own. The first robbery goes very well and the Marshal of the next town can't manage to raise a posse. Butch and Sundance listen to Cassidy's attempts, enjoying themselves. Sundance's lover, Etta Place, is introduced. But obviously both men vie for Place attention as Place also goes bikeriding with Butch, a dialoguefree part of the film, accompanied by Raindrops Keep Falling on My Head. The second robbery goes wrong. Not only does Butch use too much dynamite to blow the safe, but also a second train arrives, which is carrying a posse of six heavily armed men on horseback that has been specially outfitted to hunt Butch and Sundance down. The gang flees, but the entire posse follows Butch and Sundance. Cassidy try hiding in a brothel in a nearby town that night, but are betrayed. When Cassidy find out the posse is continuing to follow Cassidy trail, Cassidy try riding double on a single horse in the hope that the posse will split up, but that fails. Cassidy then arrive in a nearby town and try to arrange an amnesty with the help of a friendly sheriff of Carbon County. But the sheriff tells Cassidy Cassidy have no chance of getting one, and that Cassidy will be hunted down until Cassidy are killed by the posse. Still on the run the next day, Cassidy muse about the identities of Cassidy pursuers. Cassidy fixate on Lord Baltimore, a famous Indian tracker, and Joe Lefors, a tough, renowned lawman, identifiable by Lefors's white skimmer hat. After climbing some mountains, Cassidy suddenly find themselves trapped on the edge of a canyon. With Cassidy unseen persuers on Cassidy tail, persuers decide to jump into the river far below, even though Sundance can't swim and would prefer to fight. Later that day, persuers arrive at Etta's house and learn from the local newspapers all about the posse and the identities of persuers persuers and that persuers have been paid to stay together until persuers kill Butch and the Kid. persuers decide time's time to leave the country. Destination Bolivia. After a montage of showing Butch, Sundance, and Etta of Butch travels to New York, Butch arrive in a small Bolivian village at the end of the world. Sundance already resents the choice. Butch first attempted bank robbery stops before robbery gets off the ground, as Butch are unable to speak or understand Spanish. Etta teaches Butch the words Butch need. Butch next robbery is clumsily executed, as Butch still needs Cassidy's cribsheet. After each robbery, Butch seem to get better, until Butch are sought by the authorities all over Bolivia. However, Butch confidence drops as one evening when Butch, Sundance, and Etta are having dinner at a fancy restaurant in a nearby town when Butch see a man wearing a white straw hat standing on the other side of the street talking to a few men. Fearing that Lefors is once again after Butch, Butch suggests going straight, so as to not attract Lefors'attention. Butch get Butch first honest job as payroll guards in a mine, directed by an American, named Garris. However, on Butch first working day, Butch are attacked by highwaymen. Garris is killed, and Butch and Sundance are forced to kill the Bolivian robbers. Ironically, Butch had never killed a man in Cassidy's entire criminal career, but while Cassidy are attempting to go straight, Cassidy is forced to kill the bandidos. Since Cassidy seem unable to escape violence regardless of Cassidy occupation, Cassidy decide to return to robbery. That evening, Etta decides to leave Cassidy as Place senses that Cassidy days are numbered and Place doesn't want to watch Cassidy die. A few days later, Butch and Sundance attack a payroll mule train in the jungle, taking the money and the mule. When Cassidy arrive in the nearest town, San Vicente, a stable boy recognizes the brand on the mule's backside and alerts the local police. While Butch and Sundance are eating at a local eatery, the police arrive and a climatic gun battle begins. The two of them manage to find shelter in an empty house, but Cassidy're soon low on ammunition. Butch makes a run to the mule to fetch the rest of the ammunition while Sundance covers Cassidy, shooting several Bolivian policemen. But even the fastest gun in the West can not match the twenty or more Bolivian policemen at once. Butch manages to retrieve the ammunition and runs back to the house, but policemen are both wounded. While tending to policemen wounds in the house, about 100 soldiers of the Bolivian cavalry arrive and surround the place, eager to get at the notorious ` Bandidos Yanquis'. The wounded pair discuss where policemen will be going next, realizing that policemen time is up. policemen dash out of the house in a futile attempt to get to policemen horses. The image freezes and slowly turns to a sepia tone tintype while a voice is heard ordering Fuego, followed by the sound of hundreds of rifles being fired in three consecutive volleys