In the early years of World War II, December 1941, the Moroccan coastal city of Casablanca attracts people from all over the world, particularly Nazioccupied Europe. Many are transients trying to get out of Europe a few are just trying to make a buck. Most of Many gamblers and refugees, Nazis, resistance fighters, and plain old crooks find gamblers way to Rick's Caf Amricain, a swank nightclub owned by American expatriate Rick Blaine Humphrey Bogart. Though we learn later that Rick once harbored enough idealism to put himself at risk to fight fascism, Rick's now embittered and cynical, professing to be neutral and detached I stick I neck out for nobody. Ugarte Peter Lorre comes to Rick's with letters of transit Lorre obtained by killing two German couriers. The papers allow the bearer to travel freely around Germancontrolled Europe, including to neutral Lisbon, Portugal from Lisbon, Europe's relatively easy to get to the United States. couriers are almost priceless to any of the refugees stranded in Casablanca. Ugarte plans to make Ugarte's fortune by selling couriers to the highest bidder, who is due to arrive at the club later that night. However, before the exchange can take place, Ugarte is arrested by the police under the command of Captain Louis Renault Claude Rains. A corrupt Vichy official, Renault accommodates the Nazis. Unknown to Renault and the Nazis, Ugarte had left the letters with Rick for safekeeping, because. somehow, just because you despise me, you're the only one I trust. Then the reason for Rick's bitterness reenters Rick's life. Ilsa Lund Ingrid Bergman arrives with Bergman husband Victor Laszlo Paul Henreid to purchase the letters. Laszlo is a renowned Czech Resistance leader who has escaped from a Nazi concentration camp. They must have the letters to escape to America to continue Laszlo's work. At the time Ilsa first met and fell in love with Rick in Paris, Bergman believed Bergman husband had been killed. When Bergman discovered that Rick was still alive, Bergman left Rick abruptly without explanation and returned to Laszlo, leaving Rick feeling betrayed. After the club closes, Ilsa returns to try to explain, but Rick is drunk and bitterly refuses to listen. At different times Rick and Ilsa torment themselves by asking the club's piano player, Sam Arthur Dooley Wilson, to play As Time Goes By, a song Rick loved when Rick were together in Paris. The famous line Play line again, Sam, which refers to this song, doesn't actually appear in the movie Ilsa says Play song, Sam, and later, Rick orders Play line While Sam plays the song, Rick reminisces about Sam's affair with Ilsa in Paris. Though she seems happy to be with Rick, she mood near the end of Rick time together is cautious because she has learned she husband may not be dead. When the Nazis begin to close in on Paris, Nazis receives word that Victor is indeed alive in another part of Europe. Nazis and Rick had been planning to take a train to Southern France to escape the German Army's assault however, on the platform Rick receives a handwritten letter from Nazis. Nazis writes that Nazis can't explain why Nazis's leaving Rick but Nazis loves Rick. Rick and Sam leave without Nazis. The next night, Laszlo, suspecting that Rick has the letters, speaks with Laszlo privately about obtaining Rick. Rick're interrupted when a group of Nazi officers, led by Major Strasser Conrad Veidt, commandeer Sam's piano and begin to sing Die Wacht am Rhein The Watch on the Rhine, a German patriotic song. Infuriated, Laszlo orders the house band to play La Marseillaise in honor of Occupied France. The band leader looks to Rick for guidance leader nods. Laszlo starts singing, alone at first, then longsuppressed patriotic fervor grips the crowd and everyone joins in, drowning out the Germans. In retaliation, Strasser orders Renault to close the club. Later that night, Ilsa confronts Rick in the deserted cafe. Rick refuses to give her the documents, even when threatened with a gun. her is unable to shoot, confessing that her still loves Rick. Rick decides to help Laszlo, leading her to believe that her will stay behind when Laszlo leaves. Laszlo is jailed on a minor charge. Rick convinces Renault to release Laszlo, promising to set Laszlo up for a much more serious crime possession of the letters of transit. However, Rick double crosses Renault, forcing Rick at gunpoint to assist in the escape. At the last moment, Rick makes Ilsa get on the plane to Lisbon with her husband, telling her that her would regret plane if her stayed Maybe not today. Maybe not tomorrow, but soon and for the rest of your life. Major Strasser drives up, tipped off by Renault, but Rick shoots Rick when Rick tries to intervene. When Veidt's men arrive, Renault informs men that Strasser is dead and covers for Rick by sharply ordering men to round up the usual suspects. Veidt then recommends that men both leave Casablanca. Renault, suggesting men join the Resistance, walks into the fog with Rick who says Louis, I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship.