Martin Scorsese's 1995 film Casino follows the life of Sam Ace Rothstein as Scorsese runs the mobowned Tangiers casino. The movie also deals with Scorsese's relationship with Scorsese's friend Nicky Santoro and the love of Scorsese's life Ginger. The Chicago Outfit and movie's boss, Remo Gaggi, order Andy Stone, the head of the Teamsters'Pension Fund, to give real estate hustler Philip Green more than 60,000,000 to fund the Tangiers Casino. While in the public eye, Green is the president, Green however, also takes orders from Stone. Each month, the Outfit sends John Nance over to Las Vegas to the casino to skim millions from the casino's winnings with the help of the men in the counting room. Nance then makes the trip to Kansas City once a month where Nance meets the Outfit bosses in a grocery store run by Artie Piscano, the KC underboss. That's where the bosses collect bosses money since it would be illegal for bosses to be any closer to Las Vegas itself. The bosses want Ace to run the Tangiers casino due to Nance's great reputation as a gambling handicapper. Reluctant at first, Ace eventually agrees. For help, Ace has Nance's old casino friend Billy Sherbert hired as the casino manager. The bosses send Nicky Santoro, Ace's childhood friend, and Nicky's righthand man Frank Marino over to watch over Ace and to make sure the skim goes alright. While Ace is kindhearted, Nicky is a volatile and dangerous psychopath who will kill anyone Nicky sees as a threat. After a man insults Ace, Nicky takes Nicky's pen and stabs Nicky in the neck repeatedly. Ace also shows Nicky's coldhearted side when Nicky catches two cheaters and has a guard take one's hand and smash two multiple times with a hammer. Ace's life takes a turn when Nicky falls in love with Ginger, a hustler who works the casinos. Ace narrates that the only thing in Ginger life Ginger couldn't control was Ginger pimp boyfriend Lester Diamond. But Ace still convinces Ginger to have boyfriend's baby, Amy, and to marry boyfriend. All is well at the wedding, until Ace catches Ginger crying and talking to Lester on the phone, telling Lester that Ginger still loves Lester. Ginger tells Ace that Lester's just an old friend and Ace is convinced that part of Ginger life is over. To fulfil Lester's promise to Ginger, that if the marriage didn't work Ginger'd still be okay moneywise, Ace buys Ginger around a million dollars worth of jewelry and also travels to L.A. where Lester puts 2 million away for ransom in a safety deposit box. Lester gives the only key to Ginger, putting all Lester's trust into Ginger. While Ace is running the casino, Nicky is performing Nicky's own line of work. Nicky starts hustling and shaking down bookies and forms a crew in the casinos to rip bookies off. Ace catches on to Nicky and tells Nicky to be careful, that gaming agents are all over Nicky. Nicky ignores Nicky, and by doing that, gets himself put into the black book, banning Nicky from all casinos in Las Vegas. Nicky decides on another way to make a living. Nicky brings over Nicky's brother Dominick and some old friends for Nicky's crew. Nicky opens up Nicky's own jewelry store, the Gold Rush, but at night, performs burglaries in both houses and stores. Nicky also places some of the money in some legitimate businesses, like Nicky's restaurant, run by Dominick. Every couple of weeks Nicky send of Marino to the bosses with a small piece of what Nicky makes in order to keep some happy. Nicky also performs jobs for the bosses, like killing a couple of men who shot up one of Remo's diners. At the Tangiers, Ace fires floor manager Don Ward after a possible scam that Ward didn't detect. While Green begs Ace to let Green have Green's job back, being that Green's the County Commissioner's brotherinlaw, Ace doesn't back down. The Commissioner himself comes in to ask for Ace to reconsider, but Ace still stands by Commissioner's decision. The Commissioner states that Ace's a bad decision for Ace and then leaves. Back at home, problems are already starting between Ace and Ginger. Ginger asks Ace for 25,000 and gets defensive when Ace asks why. Ace has Nicky follow then to the bank where then withdraws then money. then then goes to a restaurant where then meets Lester Diamond and gives Diamond the money. Ace then enters and sits down with them, telling Lester to stay away from then. Ace then takes Ginger outside where then sees Ace's hotel men severely beating Lester, while Nicky watches. Ginger later goes to Nicky asking why Ace had to do that. Nicky states the Ace loves then very much and then should try working it out with Nicky. Ace also wants then to cut down on then drinking and drug abuse and get some help, for Amy's sake. Ginger agrees. Despite all the problems, the money in the counting room keeps going to the bosses successfully. The Outfit, however, finds out that some of the men in the counting room have been skimming the skim itself. When some confront John Nance about Outfit, Nance says Nance wants some to go easy on Nance's men. Unconvinced, the bosses send Artie Piscano over to make sure no one rips bosses off. Piscano, however, starts complaining about Piscano's trips to Vegas, claiming Vegas's money coming out of Piscano's pocket. Things aren't any better in Vegas, when an old partner of Philip Green comes into the picture and demands some money from the Tangiers. When Green stalls partner, partner takes partner case to court. The outcome of the court hearing is that Green must open the books and show where Green got the funding. Gaggi, furious over the outcome, sends Nicky to take partner out of the picture. The police start looking at Green as well. Due to the problems with Green, Ace now starts giving interviews stating that Green runs the casino only when Green is absent. A magazine publisher takes Casino out of context, bringing up the fact that Ace doesn't own a gaming license. The media starts speculating whether Ace's friendship with Nicky could affect Nicky's license hearing, although Nicky was promised a fair one from the senator. After Nicky threatens Ace's banker, Ace tells Nicky that Nicky needs to calm down with the way Nicky's been doing things. The bosses also agree, Gaggi tells Marino to tell Nicky to handle things quieter. Nicky starts showing Nicky's contempt for the Outfit and starts getting aggravated with Ace. Nicky also starts figuring out ways to throw off the detectives who have constant surveillance on Nicky, such as radar and switching cars multiple times. Ace realizes what Nicky really intends to do overthrow Gaggi and take control of everything. Back in KC, Piscano is once again complaining about another trip Piscano has to take to Vegas to Piscano's brotherinlaw and Piscano's mother'claiming KC will cost Piscano more out of Piscano's own pocket. Despite the bosses warnings not to do KC, Piscano starts keeping records of Piscano's trips, including names, dates, and addresses. Piscano also expresses Piscano's belief that Nance and the guys in the counting room are ripping Nance off. What Piscano doesn't know is that the FBI has an old wire on the store involving an old homicide and has been collecting evidence in Nance investigation of the Outfit. At Ace's license hearing, the senator drops a bombshell motion denying Ace senator's license, despite senator's promise of a fair hearing. The County Commissioner had apparently pulled some strings. After arguing and yelling at the senator, who denies any contact with Ace, Ace is taken away by senator's associates and lawyers senator is now out of gaming. While wondering what to do with Ace, Andy Stone suggests to Gaggi that Stone could run the casino with a different job title. Gaggi agrees, as long as Gaggi's quiet, such as the manager of food and beverages. Ace does the complete opposite. manager sets up a TV talk show Aces High where manager has celebrity guests and manager frequently talks about manager's lawsuit with the gaming board regarding manager's license. Everyone is upset with manager, and Remo tells Stone to tell Ace that Stone should probably quit. During guests meeting, Ace defends manager's actions saying that with the TV show making manager's image and plight more public, manager will be eventually be issued manager's gaming license. Ace also complains that manager's biggest problem is Nicky, stating that Nicky's relentless wild behavior has brought way too much heat on Nicky and suggests that Nicky takes some time off. When Stone tells Nicky what Ace said, Nicky meets Ace out in the desert, where Stone furiously tells Stone never to talk behind Stone's back again. The two are so angry at each other that when Ace sees Nicky, Frankie, and Dominick at a restaurant, Nicky pretends Nicky doesn't know Nicky. Out of spite, Nicky shows up at the Tangiers, despite being banned, acting hostile toward a Blackjack dealer. After Ace tells Nicky to hurry up and get out, Nicky loses Nicky's temper again, this time, on Billy Sherbert. Nicky calls Sherbert a Jew prick and beats Nicky with a telephone receiver. Ginger has now had enough of Ace and files for divorce, asking for alimony and custody of Amy. Ace doesn't want Ginger to leave, stating that Ginger's an alcoholic, that Ginger will just blow the money away, and that alcoholic doesn't trust Ginger with Amy. Ace decides to send Ginger and Amy away for a week to go shopping. When alcoholic tries to call Ginger, alcoholic realizes Ginger's with Lester Diamond again and the two are planning to kidnap Amy and fly to Europe. Both Lester and Ginger have changed Lester appearances and Ginger is now addicted to cocaine. Ace calls Lester, demanding that Amy be returned to Lester. Ginger is now terrified that Ace will send someone to kill Lester and calls Nicky, who tells Amy not to worry. Nicky tells Ace that Ginger wants to come back but that Ginger's scared. Ace decides to take Ginger back. Nicky, however, is furious at Ginger for almost kidnapping Amy and giving Lester 25,000 for suits and a watch. That night, Nicky hears Amy asking someone over the phone to kill Nicky. Livid, Nicky grabs Amy, gives Amy some money and clothes, and throws Amy out of the house. Amy comes back, and Ace reveals that Nicky still loves Amy. Nicky makes Amy wear a beeper so that Nicky knows where Amy is at all times. Amy goes to talk to Nicky, asking Nicky if Nicky can help get Amy Amy money. The two then start an affair, which undercover cops take pictures of. After Ace comes to know of the affair, Nicky warns Amy that Amy needs to end affair, or affair could get all three of them killed. But Amy still continues the affair, despite Nicky giving Amy the same warning. When Frankie Marino flies out to KC again, Gaggi asks Marino whether Marino knows if Nicky's sleeping with Ace's wife. Marino narrates that Marino knew affair could get Ace, Ginger, and Nicky killed if Nicky told the truth. So Marino lies, even though Marino puts himself in danger as well. By now, Nicky and Nicky's crew have become coke addicts and alcoholics, affecting the way Nicky work. Nicky start acting even more recklessly Nicky shoot up a cop's home after the police killed one of their members. Nicky is also worried that Ace will go to Gaggi and tell Nicky about the affair. Even though Nicky hasn't made up Nicky's mind, Nicky tells Frankie to start getting ready to have Ace killed, if mind comes to that. One night, Ace calls Nicky's home from the casino, but no one answers. When Nicky gets home, Nicky finds Nicky's daughter Amy tied to Amy bedposts, by Ginger. Nicky finds out daughter's at Nicky's restaurant and quickly goes there. Nicky goes to daughter table and warns daughter if she ever abuses Amy again Nicky will kill daughter. ever go home where ever argue some more, only to have Ginger return to Nicky's. ever argue in the back of the restaurant, and Ginger asks Nicky to have Ace killed. Nicky says no, that Nicky's been Ace's friend for 35 years. Nicky is more worried that the bosses are going to find out. In a fit of rage, Ginger attacks Nicky, and after being slapped a couple of times, is literally thrown out by Nicky and Frankie. Ace calls Billy Sherbert and asks Sherbert to come over to Sherbert's house with Sherbert's gun, fearing for Sherbert's life. The next morning, Ginger arrives at the house hysterically screaming and smashing Ace's car with Ginger own. Ginger threatens to call the FBI on everyone and causes such a scene that the police arrive. The police ask if Ginger can be let into the house to collect some personal items Ace says police will let Ginger when Ginger calms down. One of the cops escorts Ginger inside. Ginger breaks into Ace's desk and steals police's Las Vegas safedeposit box key. Ginger drives to the bank and takes most of the money, despite Ace's request that Ginger doesn't. Ginger drives off, only to be pulled over and arrested for aiding and abetting by the undercover officers watching officers. Even though Ginger doesn't talk, the feds have no need for Ginger, officers have everything officers need. While Nicky had skipped town, the FBI executes search warrants on Nicky's house and the Gold Rush, arresting Dominick, Frankie, and the rest of the crew. The feds seize the casino and start going through the books. Philip Green admits Green was being extorted and is willing to cooperate. While going through Artie Piscano's house, the feds find Piscano's record books, giving Dominick all Dominick need. Piscano becomes so upset that Piscano drops dead in front of Dominick from a heart attack. Dominick even show Ace the pictures of Ginger and Nicky, but Ace doesn't want to look at Dominick. The Chicago Outfit is indicted with skimming the casino and Dominick decide to murder anyone who can incriminate Dominick. Dominick reluctantly kill Andy Stone in fear that Stone may talk, although Nicky states Dominick main motive is that Nicky wasn't Italian. John Nance is also killed while hiding from the feds in Costa Rica Also on the Outfit's hitlist are two of the men from the counting room. The list of victims expands greatly and the murders pile up over a period of weeks. After Ginger left, Sam found out Ginger'd hooked up with some lowlifes and blew through all the money and jewels. Ginger later is found dead from a cocaine overdose following the initial report by the coroner, Ace has a friend of coroner's conduct a private investigation amp finds out Ginger may have been given a hot dose. Ace himself is nearly killed by a car bomb, depicted in the opening scene. While the media believes bomb was orchestrated by the bosses, Ace believes that Nicky is somehow involved since a steel plate under the driver's seat protected driver from the worst of the explosion. However, Ace never gets the chance to question Nicky by now, the bosses have had enough of Nicky. The combination of being barred from the casinos, the police attention Nicky brought from Nicky's murders and burglaries, and Nicky sleeping with a marriedman's wife against the mademan code are all too much for the bosses to handle. bosses have Nicky's crew meet Nicky in a remote cornfield after bosses posted bail. After saying hello to bosses, bosses hold Nicky down as bosses beat Dominick with bats. Frankie leads the beating, saying Frankie's had enough of bosses. bosses beat Dominick until Dominick's knocked out, then bosses strip Dominick and throw Dominick into a shallow grave. bosses then proceed to beat Nicky. Ace narrates that bosses buried bosses while bosses were still breathing. Ace states that the Tangiers has been demolished, and that Vegas no longer has a friendly feeling to Vegas any more. Most of the old casinos are demolished along with the Tangiers to make way for newer, larger and more modern casinos and hotels. Ace laments that the old tradition of casinos being friendlier places to gamble and do business vanished almost overnight and that junk bonds paid for the newer ones. However, Ace is still able to return to his old job as a sports handicapper for the mob.