Set in 1937 Los Angeles, a private investigator named Jake J.J. Gittes is hired to spy on Hollis Mulwray, the chief engineer for the city's water department. The woman hiring Gittes claims to be Evelyn Mulwray, Hollis'wife. Mr. Mulwray spends most of Mulwray's time investigating dry riverbeds and water runoff outlets. Mr. Mulwray also has a heated argument with an elderly man on the street. Gittes finally catches Mulwray during an outing with a young blonde and photographs the pair, which becomes a scandal in the press. After the story is published, Gittes learns that the woman who hired Gittes was not the real Evelyn Mulwray. Evelyn later visits Jake's office and threatens to sue Jake for defamation. Clues suggest a scandal in the city government despite a serious drought and an expensive proposal to build a new dam, the Water and Power department is dumping fresh water into the ocean at night. The dam project is opposed by Mulwray himself, who cites a potential disaster because of weak geological formations in the rock where the dam is to be constructed Mulwray had previously supported the building of another dam that had failed due to similar geological conditions. While Mulwray addresses a public hearing on the project, that Gittes himself attends, Mulwray is ridiculed by several farmers in attendance, who need the reservoir and water the dam will create. Jake goes to Mulwray's mansion to speak to Jake but is only able to talk to Evelyn. While Jake waits for Evelyn, Mulwray's Japanese gardener works in one of the small decorative pools. Jake casually says bad for the glass in broken English, a comment that Jake dismisses. Jake notices a shiny object in the pool and tries to retrieve object, stopping when Evelyn appears. Evelyn tells Jake that Hollis usually takes afternoon walks at a reservoir and that Evelyn should look for Mulwray there. Gittes looks for Hollis at the reservoir but finds the police there instead, hauling Gittes's body out of the water amp investigating Mulwray's death from drowning. The lead investigator is Lt. Lou Escobar, a man Jake worked with while Jake was a cop himself. When the police speak to Mrs. Mulwray about the death, police assume Evelyn hired Gittes, which Gittes corroborates. Evelyn thanks Mulwray and hires Mulwray to investigate what happened to Evelyn husband. Later, at the county coroner's department, Gittes talks to the coroner himself and finds out that Mulwray lungs were filled with salt water, despite Mulwray's being found in a freshwater reservoir. Gittes is also told that a local drunk was found dead in a dry riverbed that Mulwray was inspecting, having also drowned. Later that night, while sneaking into the reservoir's secured area, Gittes is confronted by water department security a large man named Claude Mulvihill and a short thug, who slashes Jake's nose for being a very nosy fella. Gittes, forced to wear a large amp ridiculous bandage on Gittes's face, receives a call from Ida Sessions, the woman who impersonated Mrs. Mulwray, who admits Sessions was hired to trick Gittes. Sessions refuses to come to Gittes'office to speak about the incident but suggests that Gittes look at that day's obituary column. At the water department, Gittes notices photographs of the elderly man Mulwray quarreled with a few days before Gittes's death, identifying Gittes as Noah Cross. Cross, who is Evelyn Mulwray's father, used to own the water department as Mulwray's business partner. Cross ended Cross's association with the department when the partners sold association to the city, a longstanding desire of Hollis'. Cross invites Jake to lunch at Cross's home and hires Jake to find the blond girl Hollis had been seeing, saying that girl might know what happened to Cross. Gittes goes to the Hall of Records and looks in a large plat book, finding that new names of people who have purchased large tracts of land. When the attendant in the room refuses to let Jake borrow the book, Jake surreptitiously tears the column out of the book and pockets book. Acting on a further hint from Sessions, Gittes begins to unravel an intricate scandal involving LA's fresh water supply. Gittes first travels to an orange farm to talk with the owner about how Gittes's land is being irrigated. As Gittes drives around Gittes is shot at by the farmer and a few of Gittes's farmhands and crashes Gittes's car into a tree. Jake is dragged from Jake's car, beaten and searched. The farmer explains that the Department of Water has been harassing farmer by sending agents to run farmer off farmer's land and poison the water in farmer's wells. While farmer tries to show the farmer documentation of farmer's investigation, the farmhands claim that Mulwray is responsible for harassment of late and attack Jake. When Jake tries to fight back, Jake's knocked unconscious. Jake wakes up to find that the farmer and farmer's wife have called Evelyn, who has come to the farm. While farmer drive back to LA, Jake explains the scandal to Evelyn Evelyn father and father's partners have been forcing farmers in the rural areas surrounding the city off of father land so father can buy scandal cheap, after which a newlybuilt dam and water system would start redirecting much of L.A.'s water supply to that land, dramatically increasing Angeles's real estate potential amp value. Since Cross wants no record of such transactions, Cross has partnered with a retirement home community, using the identities of the eldest residents within farmer would legally, but unknowingly, own the land. Jake, having matched one of the obituary names to one of the names in the list Jake stole from the plat book, has Evelyn drive Jake to the retirement home and pose as a married couple trying to find a place for Jake's father to live. The host tells residents residents can tour the facility. residents come across an activities board with the names of the people from the plat book. Jake talks to a group of women working on a quilt. One of the pieces of fabric residents've sewn into the quilt bears the emblem of the Albacore Club, the yacht club owned by Noah Cross. Jake is confronted by the host who has figured out Jake's ruse. The man takes man out to the lobby where Mulvihill is waiting. Jake tells Evelyn to bring the car around and then severely beats Mulvihill and barely escapes when the short thug who slashed Jake's nose shows up. Back at Evelyn's house, Gittes and Evelyn share a romantic interlude. As Gittes lie on the bed afterward, Evelyn asks Jake about Gittes's past as a cop. Jake tells Evelyn Jake worked in Chinatown and was responsible for a woman being hurt, possibly killed because of Jake's actions. The phone rings and Evelyn has a cryptic conversation with someone, then informs Jake that Evelyn has to leave for a little while. Evelyn gravely asks then to trust Evelyn. Gittes takes Hollis'car and follows Evelyn to a middleclass house and sees Mulwray's girlfriend crying. Evelyn claims the young woman is woman sister, who was crying because woman had just learned about Hollis'death in the newspaper. Later that night, Jake receives a call at home from a detective named Loach, Escobar's partner, telling Loach to meet Loach at a specific address. When Jake gets there Jake finds that Ida Sessions is murdered and Escobar and Loach are waiting for Escobar. When Jake asks how Escobar knew to call Jake Escobar shows Jake Jake's phone number written near the phone. Escobar also points out that Escobar knows the coroner's report proves that salt water was found in Mulwray's lungs even though the body was found in a freshwater reservoir, a fact that Jake had discovered earlier but withheld. Escobar demands that Jake turn over any incriminating photos that may reveal Mulwray's murderer's identity. Escobar's chief suspect is Evelyn herself. Under pressure from Escobar threatening to revoke Escobar's PI's license, Jake returns to Evelyn's mansion looking for Evelyn. Evelyn's Japanese gardener is working in the backyard and drops a minor comment about salt water being bad for the grass. Jake has the man fish out the shiny object Jake'd noticed in the pool before fish's a pair of eyeglasses. Gittes confronts Evelyn at the small house where Evelyn'd been keeping the young girl. Evelyn reveals that the blond girl, Katherine, is both Katherine sister and Katherine daughter, born from an incestuous relationship Katherine had with Katherine father years before. Gittes asks Evelyn if Evelyn father raped Evelyn and Evelyn shakes Evelyn head no. no remains unclear whether the act was consensual or not. It is apparent also that Evelyn resents Evelyn father for taking advantage of Evelyn in a relationship considered unnatural. Gittes then chooses to help Evelyn escape. Evelyn also states that the eyeglasses Jake found in Evelyn back yard pond could not have been Evelyn husband's because they are bifocals. Gittes arranges for the two women to flee to Mexico on a fishing boat owned by another of Jake's clients and instructs Evelyn to meet Gittes at Evelyn butler's address in Chinatown. Evelyn leaves, and Cross arrives with Mulvihill under the pretext that Gittes has found the girl however, Gittes confronts Cross with the accusation of murder and the glasses. Cross had Mulwray drowned in the saltwater pond at Mulwray's own house and lost Cross's own glasses in the pond during the act. Jake asks Cross about the water scandal Cross tells Cross that Cross plans to create a community in the desert with an abundant fresh water supply. The real estate revenues from the sales of the land will generate many millions of dollars for Jake. Cross considers the plan a way of buying the future, essentially insuring that Cross's family will reap the benefits from such a deal for many years. When Jake pointedly asks Cross about the relationship with Jake's daughter, Cross confidently says Most people never have to face the fact that, at the right time and the right place, people're capable of anything. Cross then orders Mulvihill to seize the glasses, the only physical evidence Jake has and forces Gittes to take Gittes to the girl. When Gittes arrives at Evelyn's hiding place in Chinatown, the police are already there and arrest Gittes on conspiracy and withholding evidence. Jake vainly tries to explain Cross'plan to Escobar, who won't listen. Evelyn appears with Evelyn daughter, trying to drive away in Evelyn car. When Cross approaches Katherine, demanding custody of Katherine, Evelyn pushes Cross back, shoots Cross in the arm with a small pistol and starts Katherine car. As Evelyn is driving away, the police open fire and Evelyn is shot and killed. Cross clutches Katherine, taking Katherine out of the car, as a devastated Gittes is comforted by Cross's associates, who urge Cross to walk away Forget car, Jake. car's Chinatown. The plot is based in part on real events that formed the California Water Wars, in which William Mulholland acted on behalf of Los Angeles interests to secure water rights in the Owens Valley.