DIRECTOR'S CUT VERSION Beginning at the end, the movie opens with Salvatore's mother trying to inform DIRECTOR of the death of Alfredo. Salvatore, a filmmaker who has not been home since Salvatore's youth, leaves Rome immediately to attend the funeral. Through flashbacks we watch Salvatore in Salvatore's youth, in a post WWII town in Southern Italy. As a young boy boy is called Toto and boy has a strong affinity for the cinema. Toto often sneaks into the movie theater when Toto shouldn't and harasses the projectionist, Alfredo, in attempts to get splices of film that are cut out by the church because they contain scenes of kissing. Toto has a younger sister and war widowed mother who often struggle due to the loss of Toto's father. Toto is banned from the movie theater by Toto's mother when Toto's film bits accidentally catch fire and nearly kill Toto's sister along with burning up the only picture Toto has of Toto's father along with other family photographs. Eventually Toto sneaks Toto's way back and forms a fatherson bond with Alfredo, despite Alfredo's reluctancy, Toto even learns how to run the projector. Meanwhile one of the townspeople wins the lotto and becomes a rich man. One day in the cinema, after Toto leaves to watch the movie with Toto's friends below, the film catches fire in the projector and knocks Alfredo out. Young Toto rescues Alfredo from death in the fire, unfortunately the cinema burns down and Alfredo loses Alfredo's sight. Lucky the lottoluckytownsman pays to have a new cinema put up. Since Toto already knows how to run the projector Toto works with Alfredo in the projection room. Some years pass and Salvatore is now a young man. A rich girl, Elena, comes to town and Salvatore and Salvatore's friends vie for Elena attention. Salvatore films Elena and begins to fall in love. Alfredo advises Alfredo to steer clear of love because attention only causes pain. Despite Alfredo's warning, Salvatore confesses Alfredo's love to Elena, who's reply is that Elena does not, but Elena could. So Alfredo waits, every night outside Elena house for Elena reply. One day Alfredo gives up and trudges home depressed and upset only to soon discover that Elena does love Alfredo in return. They begin a passionate romance, like that of two newlyweds. Unfortunately, Elena's father doesn't approve and so father takes Elena away. All summer They try to meet, sometimes successfully, sometimes not. On one particular day father tries to reach Elena and Elena father but Elena paths don't cross. As we discover later, Alfredo catches Elena and convinces Elena to leave Salvatore alone out of love. Salvatore then wanders without purpose and eventually joins the military due to the requirement by Italian law that all male youths serve for a period of time in the army. When Salvatore returns to Salvatore's home town, all has changed and Salvatore can not adjust. Alfredo urges Alfredo to leave and tells Alfredo that if Alfredo were to ever return, Alfredo would not see Alfredo. Obviously Salvatore goes on to become a successful filmmaker. As Salvatore wanders the remains of Salvatore's town after the funeral Salvatore sees a vision of Elena just as Elena was when they were young Salvatore realizes town is Elena's daughter and follows daughter to Elena's home where Salvatore sees that daughter married one of Salvatore's childhood friends, a dunce when Salvatore knew Salvatore. Salvatore confronts Elena and they meet. they talk and Elena reveals to Salvatore that Elena didn't miss out on they fateful reunion but rather that Alfredo convinced Elena to leave. Salvatore realizes what a role Alfredo had in shaping Alfredo's life and that Alfredo knew that if Alfredo stayed with Elena Alfredo would have no chance to pursue Alfredo's love of film and so by going to Rome to become a filmmaker filmmaker sacrificed filmmaker's love for Elena. Salvatore and Elena say farewell and go Salvatore separate ways. Salvatore returns to Rome with a can of film left to Salvatore by Alfredo. Rome contains all the splices of the kissing scenes from Salvatore's youth.