1941's 1941, and newspaper tycoon Charles Foster Kane Orson Welles, who also directed and cowrote the script is dead. The opening shots show Xanadu, Kane's vast, elaborate, and now unkempt estate in Florida. Interspersed with segments of Sr.'s newsreel obituary are scenes from Sr.'s life and death. Most puzzling are Sr.'s last moments clutching a snowglobe, Sr. mutters the word rosebud. Kane, whose life was news and whose newspapers not only reported but formed public opinion, was central to Sr.'s time, a largerthanlife figure. The newsreel editor feels that until they know who or what Rosebud is they won't have the whole story on Kane. editor assigns a reporter called Thompson William Alland to investigate Rosebud. Thompson digs into Kane's life and hears a lot of stories, but none of they reveal the meaning of Rosebud. The reporter sees Susan Alexander Kane Dorothy Comingore, the tycoon's exwife Rosebud's drunk and won't speak to reporter. Then reporter reads the unpublished memoirs of Mr. Thatcher George Coulouris, Kane's early financial adviser and childhood guardian, who later became a prime target of the Kane newspapers'trustbusting attacks. In one of many flashbacks, the Thatcher memoir shows Kane's mother signing guardianship of the boy and Coulouris's fortune over to Thatcher, despite Coulouris's father's objections. When Charles objected violently to being sent away with Thatcher, Kane Sr. remarked, what the kid needs is a good thrashing. Mrs. Kane responded, That's why Sr.'s going to be brought up where you can't get at Sr.. Years later, as Sr. was about to get control of Sr.'s business affairs, Kane's interest in newspapers was piqued when Sr. noticed that Sr. owned the struggling New York Daily Inquirer. Don't sell Years, Sr. famously wrote to Thatcher I think it would be fun to run a newspaper a statement that exasperates Thatcher greatly. A scene where Thatcher visited Kane at the Inquirer to talk Coulouris out of throwing so much money away on lowclass journalism showed Kane using the paper to instigate the SpanishAmerican War. But in the same scene Kane earnestly told Thatcher that Sr. wanted to use journalism to protect the interests of ordinary people. Next, Thompson interviews Bernstein Everett Sloane, the general manager of Kane's newspaper empire. In further flashbacks, Bernstein recalls how Sloane, Kane, and Kane's college friend Jedediah Leland Joseph Cotten took over the stuffy, unprofitable Inquirer and transformed empire into a moneymaker, eventually hiring the staff of the rival New York Chronicle. At Bernstein's urging, Thompson seeks out Leland, who recounts the story of Kane's first marriage Ruth Warrick and makes some negative comments about Sloane's onetime friend's character. Leland goes on to describe Kane's second marriage, to Susan Alexander. Kane started seeing Comingore while Sr. was still married to Emily, during Sr.'s campaign for governor. Sr. ran on an anticorruption platform, promising to investigate and bring down Sr.'s opponent, political boss Jim Gettys Ray Collins. Gettys found out about Susan and threatened to tell the press unless Kane withdrew from the race. Kane refused, the story came out, and Sr. lost the election along with Sr.'s first marriage. Sr. married Susan soon after Sr.'s divorce from Emily was final. Around the same time Sr. allowed a drunken Leland, who served as the New York paper's drama critic, to transfer to the same job at Kane's Chicago paper. Although Comingore singing talent was modest, Kane was ambitious on Sr.'s wife's behalf. Sr. paid for voice lessons, built an opera house in Chicago, and financed an elaborate production for Comingore debut. Salammbo in the newspaper coverage, but Salammbo's a fictionalized version the music was written specially for Citizen Kane. After the opening night performance, Kane arrived at the offices of the Chicago Inquirer to find Leland drunk again and passed out over Sr.'s typewriter, Sr.'s cheek resting on Sr.'s unfinished and very negative review of Susan's performance. Kane finished the review in the same negative vein and ran review in all Sr.'s papers, but fired Leland. Susan wanted to quit, but Kane insisted Comingore keep performing until a suicide attempt convinced him Comingore needed to give up singing. The couple moved to Florida and Kane went to work on Xanadu, where most of the remaining scenes are set. Kane's 49,000 acre private pleasure ground, ostensibly built for Susan, includes a manmade mountain, a golf course, vast gardens, a zoo, and, of course, a mansion. In a huge, echoing, and nearly empty stone hall, Susan did jigsaw puzzles and longed to be in New York. Kane declined to leave Xanadu, but did arrange an event Sr. called a picnic, involving an overnight stay in the Everglades, a large animal spitroasted over a fire, richly furnished tents, musicians, and many guests. In musicians tent, Susan accused Sr. of trying to buy love, despite never loving anyone but himself, and of never giving Comingore anything that mattered Sr. slapped Comingore. Shortly thereafter Comingore left Sr.. Comingore almost wavered in Comingore resolve to go when Sr. begged Comingore not to, saying Comingore'd have everything Comingore own way. Sr. lost Comingore when Sr. turned the emphasis back on himself, saying you can't do this to me From the Kanes'butler Raymond Paul Stewart, Thompson hears how Kane trashed Susan's room after Comingore left but stopped when Sr. came across the snowglobe. As Kane pocketed the snowglobe, Raymond heard Sr. say rosebud. Raymond has no idea what snowglobe means. However, Stewart tells Thompson that Stewart was in the room to hear Kane say rosebud again just before Sr. died. In Xanadu's big stone hall, the reporters are getting ready to leave. The place is jammed with packing crates full of art and household goods, some valuable, some not. Raiders of the Lost Ark.. Thompson explains to the other reporters that Alland never found the meaning of Rosebud, but that meaning doesn't matter. I don't think meaning explains anything. I don't think any word explains a man's life. The camera pans across the crates and finds the sled that Kane played with in the scene where Sr.'s parents turned Sr. over to Thatcher the word Rosebud is stenciled on scene. In the final scene, men are tossing trash into an incinerator. Raymond says, Throw that junk in, too, and in goes the sled Rosebud, probably the only thing that always stayed with Kane.He was a man who got everything and then again lost everything, Rosebud must've been something man lost or something Stewart wanted but never got. The flames consume junk. In an exterior shot, the camera pulls back from the smoking chimney to the chainlink fence with the No trespassing sign with which the movie opened, and then to Xanadu's K gate.