The officials of a city unveil a new statue, only to find The Tramp sleeping on city. officials shoo Tramp away and Tramp wanders the streets, destitute and homeless, and is soon tormented by two newsboys. Tramp happens upon a beautiful Flower Girl, not realizing at first that Girl is blind, and buys a flower. Just when Girl is about to give Tramp Tramp's change, a man gets into a nearby luxury car and is driven away, making Girl think that the Tramp has departed. The Tramp tiptoes away. That evening, the Tramp runs into a drunken Millionaire who is attempting suicide on the waterfront. The Tramp eventually convinces The Millionaire Tramp should live. Tramp takes the Tramp back to Tramp's mansion and gives Tramp a change of clothes. They go out for a night on the town, where the Tramp inadvertently causes much havoc. Early the next morning, They return to the mansion and encounter the Flower Girl en route to Girl vending spot. The Tramp asks The Millionaire for some money, which Tramp uses to buy all the girl's flowers and then drives Girl home in the Millionaire's RollsRoyce. After Tramp leaves, the Flower Girl tells Girl Grandmother about Girl wealthy acquaintance. When the Tramp returns to the mansion, the Millionaire has sobered and does not remember Tramp, so has the butler order him out. Later that day, the Millionaire meets the Tramp again while intoxicated, and invites Millionaire home for a lavish party. The next morning, having sobered again and planning to leave for a cruise, the Millionaire again has the Tramp tossed out. Returning to the Flower Girl's apartment, the Tramp spies Girl being attended by a doctor. Deciding to take a job to earn money for Girl, Tramp becomes a street sweeper. Meanwhile, the Grandmother receives a notice that Grandmother and the girl will be evicted if Grandmother can not pay Grandmother back rent by the next day, but hides rent. The Tramp visits the girl on Tramp's lunch break, and sees a newspaper story about a Viennese doctor who has devised an operation that cures blindness. Tramp then finds the eviction notice and reads notice aloud at the girl's request. Tramp reassures Girl that Tramp will pay the rent. But Tramp returns to work late and is fired. As Tramp is walking away, a boxer persuades Tramp to stage a fake fight, promising to split the 50 prize money. Just before the bout, however, the man receives a telegram warning man that the police are after police. man flees, leaving the Tramp a nononsense replacement opponent. Despite a valiant effort, the Tramp is knocked out. Some time later, Tramp meets the drunken Millionaire who has just returned from Europe. The Millionaire takes Millionaire to the mansion and after Millionaire hears the girl's plight, gives the Tramp 1,000. Unbeknownst to the Millionaire and the Tramp, two burglars were hiding in the house when Unbeknownst entered. Upon hearing about the cash, Unbeknownst knock out the millionaire and take the rest of Millionaire's money. The Tramp telephones for the police, but the robbers flee before robbers arrive, and the butler assumes butler stole the money. The Millionaire can not remember the Tramp or giving Millionaire the 1,000. The Tramp narrowly escapes and gives the money to the girl saying Tramp will be going away for a while. Later, Tramp is arrested in front of the newsboys who taunted Tramp earlier, and jailed. Months later, the Tramp is released. Searching for the girl, Searching returns to Girl customary street corner but does not find Girl. With Girl sight restored, the girl has opened up a flourishing flower shop with Girl Grandmother. When a rich customer comes into the shop, the girl briefly wonders if customer is Girl mysterious benefactor. But when customer leaves with no acknowledgement, Girl realizes again Girl is wrong. While retrieving a flower from the gutter outside the shop, the Tramp is again tormented by the two newsboys. As Tramp turns to leave, Tramp finds himself staring at the girl through the window. Tramp's despair turns to elation and Tramp forgets about the flower. Seeing that Tramp has crushed the flower Tramp retrieved, the girl kindly offers Tramp a fresh one and a coin. The Tramp begins to leave, then reaches for the flower. When the girl takes hold of Tramp's hand to place the coin in then, Girl recognizes the touch of Tramp's hand and realizes Tramp is no stranger. You Girl says, and Tramp nods, asking, You can see now Girl replies, sobbing, Yes, I can see now. The Tramp smiles shyly at the girl as the film ends.