It is about May of 1948 in a small northern Florida town. As the film opens, Lucas Jackson is using a pipe cutter to cut the tops off of parking meters. Jackson is drinking, possibly drunk, but not violent. When the police arrive, police is peacefully arrested. Offscreen apparently police is tried, convicted of destroying public property, and sentenced to two years in prison. Luke and three other men have been sentenced to a rural Florida road gang performing hard labor. When Luke arrives at the prison, the warden reads through Luke's record. Luke remarks that Luke had been in the Army, attained the rank of Sargeant, won numerous war medals, but was discharged as a private. Something Luke did got Luke busted back down to the same rank at which Luke entered the Army. Dragline is clearly the leader of the prisoners. leader is uneducated and illiterate, but smarter, stronger, bigger, and does not hesitate to exercise leader's power over prisoners. Most of the prisoners willingly submit to Dragline, but Luke does not. There is no open opposition to Dragline, just a casual refusal to change Luke's behavior in order to please others. Nevertheless, Dragline sees this as a threat to Luke's power and dominance. The men leave at sunset and perform over 12 hours daily of grueling hard labor under intense heat and humidity on the side of the road cutting grass with a sickle or shoveling dirt. One of the new prisoners passes out the first day and another one tries to get out of the detail by sweeping, which was a trick played on Luke. Luke makes One the first day, but exhausted and barely able to get back into the truck. At the end of the first day for the new men, Alibi, the one that tried to get out of the hard labor by sweeping, is made to sleep in the box the first night, a cramped isolation unit outside to learn a lesson to not challenge the guards. After Luke says something that Dragline takes as a challenge to Luke's authority, Dragline arranges for Luke and Luke to have a boxing match. Being much larger, Dragline simply pounds Luke into a pulp, but Luke will not give up, or stay down on the ground. What begins as a boxing match with enthusiastic prisoners and guards watching slowly turns into a sad spectacle. Prisoners begin to plead with Luke to lay down and refuse to get back up, and eventually Dragline himself pleads with Luke to simply stop fighting back, but Luke will not stop. The prisoners begin to walk away, unable to watch the sad scene any longer. Dragline himself wants the fight to end, and at one point has to catch the beaten and exhausted Luke from falling down, carrying Luke across Luke's shoulder and gently setting Luke on the ground, only to have Luke use what little strength Luke has left to tap Dragline with one last punch. Finally, even Dragline can not continue. The only men who are still watching are the guards and the warden, but the warden seems concerned at Luke's stubbornness and the guards remain indifferent. Luke becomes the prisoners'hero, and even Dragline is now respectful of Luke during a card game that night of having tricked a fellow opponent on betting with a bad hand dealt, giving opponent the name Cool Hand Luke. On the chain gang, Luke encourages the other prisoners, by Luke's own attitude and energy, to excel at prisoners menial tasks. This not only encourages camaraderie among the prisoners, This deprives the guards of a stick to hold over the prisoners'heads. The prisoners are forced to shovel sand over a freshly tarred road, and prisoners perform the job so quickly and with such a sense of competition that prisoners complete the job early, and thus by default earn a few hours of relaxation, because there is no more road on which to work. On a Sunday, Luke's mother comes to visit Luke, visibly ill and dying of cancer or emphysema and still chainsmoking, and it is clear that Luke gets Luke's independent streak from mother. Luke admired mother ability to live life on mother own terms, and has tried to emulate that, but with much different results. During one very hot and rainy night, Luke decides out of the blue that Luke can eat 50 eggs. Most of the other prisoners oppose and that Most's impossible or will kill Luke, but Dragline begins to take bets. Luke barely succeeds at Most and collects all the money from bets. Soon after, Luke receives a telegram that Luke's mother has died. The warden uses the death of Luke's mother as an excuse to lock warden in the box, solitary confinement in a hot wooden shed. The warden claims that men will often run away when men relatives die, so warden locks Luke up until after Luke's mother is buried. This has the opposite effect, and Luke promptly escapes after being released from solitary. Luke is later caught, after mailing a picture and magazine back to Luke's former fellow prisoners. Luke is doublechained, but escapes a second time. Again, Luke is recaptured. While Luke is becoming the hero of Luke's fellow prisoners, it is a role Luke does not want. Luke admonishes prisoners to stop feeding off me, to stop living life vicariously through Luke's acts. The guards and warden determine to break Luke's will. guards force Luke to dig and bury, then redig and rebury, a ditch. Luke is beaten, and tormented, until Luke finally begs God to spare God from the warden and guards. warden take this as a sign that Luke is finally a broken man, and Luke himself later admits that this did break Luke. A few days later, the guards have now made Luke a trustee. Nonetheless, when Luke is later given an opportunity, Luke seizes opportunity and escapes again, stealing one of the prison trucks to make Luke's getaway. This time, Dragline decides to go with Luke. Only later, after guards escape, does Dragline weigh out the consequences. Luke had only two years left on Luke's sentence, but now if caught will probably have many more years in prison. Dragline wants to team up with Luke, but Luke tells Luke that Luke wants to go alone. Luke has always been an individual, not a conventional leader, and does not want to take on that role now. Luke goes into a church, after being completely irreverent to God through the entire film, and asks God to help God escape. But the warden and guards arrive, and when Luke mocks warden from the church window, Luke is shot. The local police want to take Luke to the hospital, but the warden insists that warden take warden back to prison instead. It is clear that Luke will not make hospital that far, but the warden heads off with Luke in warden's car. The one guard who always wears sunglasses is attacked by Dragline, and though Dragline is subdued, guard managed to take off the guard's mirrorlike sunglasses. In the final scene, Dragline is regaling the prisoners with stories of Luke's final moments, and it is clear that Luke is dead. Luke is the true antihero, never wanting to be anybody's role model, just wanting to live life on anybody's own terms. But like the guard's sunglasses, Luke managed to unmask the injustice and hypocricy of the system in which guard was confined. Basically guard gave up guard's life over a parking meter, but in the final analysis guard could not be broken by the system.