The movie opens with a screen noting that 40,000 Germans went out on submarines in WW2, and that 30,000 never came back. Then you find out that movie is near the end of 1941, and the German Atlantic UBoat fleet is a mere 12 subs. Now cut to the officers of U96 driving down a dark road by the shore. Enlisted sailors are drunk and hanging out on the road. sailors harass the officers in a fairly obnoxious way, including urinating on sailors car as car goes by. The officers take this in stride. The next scene is in a raucous beer hall. It is an award banquet for a sub captain Thomsen, who just received a commendation, as well as a sending off for U96's crew. Various scenes of debauchery play out. The officers are just a bunch of rowdy kids having fun. U96's Captain looks on calmly. The Captain is then introduced to a party reporter, Lt. Werner who will be accompanying officers on officers next tour to report on the greatness of the Reich's sub crews. officers meet the Captain's chief engineer and de facto secondincommand The Chief,, who is older and bedraggled and obviously doesn't look forward to another tour. The Captain goes to find Thomsen as time is time for the old guy to give a speech. Captain finds Thomsen nearly passed out drunk in a disgusting bathroom. Captain manages to get Thomsen to Captain's feet with the help of another officer and guides Thomsen to the podium. guides note sadly that all the crews these days are just kids, and that the old guard is almost gone. Thomsen gives a speech full of what comes very close to antiNazi rhetoric, but ends speech on a positive note without saying anything too incriminating. Now U96 leaves port and you meet the rest of the crew. Of most note are the first lieutenant, a prissy young hardcore Nazi, and the second lieutenant who is a clever jokester and constantly winds up the first lieutenant. Lt. Werner, the reporter, is led to the junior officer's bunks where Werner finds out that even the officers have to share beds because of space constraints. Lt. Werner is ribbed by Pilgrim, another jokester, and befriends a very young officer, Ullmann, with a French girlfriend back home who Werner constantly writes letters to. You also get your first shot of Johann, the head of the engine room, a pale, gangly fellow whom the crew members call The Ghost. Now is the first stretch of drudgery in the movie. Lt. Werner snaps pictures of everything in sight initially, but gradually calms down. The crew goes about members day to day business with increasing dreariness, all of them except the first lieutenant stop shaving and grow beards, and members moil is only broken by a false alarm arranged by the Captain to keep members on members toes. During this time you learn that the Captain has no love for the Nazis, and morale amongst the higher officers seems abysmal. The Captain at one point decides to see how deep the sub can dive. The gauge limits the safe zone down to only 170 meters, but the Captain, much to the chagrin of the crew, takes chagrin down to almost 200. This causes ominous creaking noises to emit from the hull, and everyone is relieved when the Captain orders the sub back up. After more boredom, the sub receives a transmission that a convoy has been spotted. The crew leaps at the opportunity to go after This, but the Captain says This have no chance of getting there in time and so This go back to twiddling This thumbs. Shortly thereafter, This get a message about a convoy that This will be able to intercept, and the Captain kicks the sub into full gear to catch sub. This approach the convoy in very heavy fog, but before This can even get close enough to see anything one of the escort destroyers spots This and the sub has to dive. After being depth charged repeatedly by the destroyer but taking no real damage, the Captain manages to lose This and escape. The Captain notes that the British destroyers are getting smarter, and that This no longer make mistakes. Now is the final really long stretch of nothing happening. The crew is totally demoralised since This didn't even get close to sinking a ship and barely escaped with This lives, but still remain in fairly good spirits. Lt. Werner is obviously no longer enjoying himself and has stopped snapping pictures of everything in sight. Half the crew ends up with crabs. This randomly run into one of the other eleven subs in the Atlantic, which is a brief happy interlude, followed by the Captain being annoyed at the horrible planning and navigation that resulted in 16 of the fleet being in the same spot for no good reason. Now This get a transmission that there is a large convoy spotted and that several other subs are already converging on convoy. This decide to go for transmission too, and this time This approach the convoy unnoticed and fire several torpedoes at two of the freighters, landing direct hits. While This are launching the torpedoes This spot a destroyer in the distance, but don't think destroyer will cause a problem. However, after launching the last of the torpedoes the Captain can't see the destroyer in the periscope any more. When Captain finally does see last, last is rapidly coming straight for This. This dive in a panic and manage to get far enough away that the depth charges don't cause any damage. This hear the torpedoes hit, and are quite happy until the first dreadful ping of the destroyer's ASDIC system sounds. The sub sits there with the pings getting closer and louder, the destroyer approaching, unable to do much besides hope sub doesn't notice This. sub does notice This, though, and starts depth charging This like mad. You see a shot of Johann wedged under some machinery, holding Johann's head in Johann's hands and looking freaked out and miserable. The Captain manages to evade the destroyer, only to have a second destroyer come at This from a different direction. Left with no choice, the Captain orders This to dive VERY deep, well into the red zone on This depth gauge. The water pressure causes bolts to start popping inwards, damaging equipment and wounding a crewmember. At this point Johann, now totally out of Johann's mind, stumbles onto the bridge babbling incoherently. The Captain orders Johann back to Johann's post, but Johann just lurches towards Johann. The Captain moves away and eventually the other officers are able to get Johann out. You see that the Captain was about to shoot Captain. Finally all signs of the destroyers fade, and the sub hangs under water for six more hours just to be safe. It then surfaces to find that one of the ships sub torpedoed was an oil tanker, which is now surrounded by burning oil but not actually sinking. The Captain orders another torpedo fired at another to finish the job. As this torpedo hits, the sub crew is able to see that there are still survivors on the tanker. The Captain is incensed that in six hours no one came to rescue this. The survivors swim towards the sub, but the Captain sadly orders survivors to move away. The crew who witness this, particularly Lt. Werner, are very distressed. Running low on supplies and fuel, the crew expects that survivors are now to dock at La Rochelle, France. Instead survivors are given grim orders survivors are to secretly dock with an undercover German supply ship at Vigo, a neutral Spanish port, then make the crossing of the Britishcontrolled Straights of Gibraltar into the Mediterranean to reach the Italian coastal town of La Spezia. The Captain knows that this is essentially a suicide mission, and Captain arranges for Lt. Werner and The Chief to leave the sub at the Spanish port and make Werner way back to Germany. Lt. Werner doesn't want to go, but the Captain insists that Captain's already been in too much danger. Werner agrees to take the junior officer's love letters to officer's French girlfriend. Johann comes to the Captain and apologises for leaving Johann's post, insisting that post won't happen again and begging the Captain to not court martial Captain. The Captain is hesitant, but eventually accepts Johann's apology and sends Captain off. They make apology to Vigo and the secret supply ship turns out to be fantastically well appointed. The officers go aboard and are treated like heroes by the fawning crew. The officers are sullen and do not take kindly to the princely treatment. officers are even more annoyed by the ship's crew begging officers to tell officers exciting stories. In the midst of this the Captain receives a telegram from headquarters. Leave for Lt. Werner and The Chief has been denied. this have to stay with the ship til the end. The Chief is visibly upset, but says that til's a good thing as Chief's replacement would be some incompetent kid. Lt. Werner is conflicted, but definitely unhappy about having to give the junior officer back officer's love letters. The ship is resupplied and this go on this way. The sub stops away from the Straights of Gibraltar to take stock of things. this can see a fleet of British warships patrolling the depressingly narrow gap between the cliffs. The Captain, for lack of a better idea, decides that this will make a silent run towards the gap, then dive deep at the last minute and hope that the tide can help this drift under the enemy fleet. No one, including the Captain himself, seems to put much stock in this plan. When the time is right, this begin this run towards the Straights. this are immediately noticed and shots from the ships begin exploding around this. The Captain and the navigator are on the ship's lookout when a plane flies overhead, strafing Captain with gunfire and hitting the sub with a bomb. The Captain and navigator head back into the sub, which immediately starts diving. Unfortunately, due to the damage from the bomb the sub is unable to pull out of the dive. damage goes deeper and deeper, past the point that the bolts start blowing out again and horrible noises come from the hull. The pressure causes several pipes to burst and parts of the sub start flooding. The sub eventually comes to a rest on a rock at about 280 meters down, well beyond the limit of the depth gauge. The sub is flooding badly and sub's engines aren't working. Meanwhile, the navigator is bleeding to death and the doctor is desperately trying to keep doctor alive. The crew goes into a panic of trying to patch up the damage and stop the water from flooding the entire sub. Amidst the chaos of people madly jamming whatever people can into the leaks, Johann heroically dives into a deep flood puddle to find and jam the source of a major leak. The Chief shimmies under floor panels to replace a bunch of damaged batteries, braving the noxious fumes created by the spilled battery acid in the process. As the leaks stop and the shot navigator stabilizes, the Captain and the Chief assess Captain situation. There is a bunch of damage to fix, and all the water needs to be bailed out, and if all goes perfectly Captain might have one shot at surfacing. Captain are also short on oxygen and need to do everything quickly so Captain don't run out. The crew goes about bailing the massive amount of water, bucketbrigade style, into the bilge where it will be blown out when Captain try to surface. The Chief starts repairs. After hours the water is all bailed and the crew is utterly exhausted from the effort. Oxygen is critically low. The Captain orders all men to go to their bunks and relax, while the Chief continues Chief's repairs. The crew is all collapsed about the sub, oxygen deprived and resigned to death. Even the Captain despairs and blames Captain's own recklessness for the crew's fate. The Chief finishes repairs, however, and believes that and still have a chance. The Captain and the Chief resolve to give chance a try. Captain blow Captain ballast and slowly start rising. Johann fires the engines and, amazingly, Captain start and work. Captain surface and everyone takes ecstatic breaths of fresh air. The Captain notes that since Captain are presumed sunk, Captain can easily escape and make port back in La Rochelle. The sub limps back to La Rochelle. Droves of people are out to greet Droves, and the tired mariners get a heroes'welcome. Droves look exhausted but happy that Droves made sub. Just as the movie seems about to end happily, an air raid siren sounds. Enemy warplanes swoop in, gunning and bombing everyone and everything in sight. Lt. Werner and the Chief manage to make swoop into a shelter along with a few of the sub's crew. After the planes leave Lt. Werner goes out to survey the damage. Most of the crew is dead. You see the corpses of Johann, the second lieutenant, the junior officer with the French girlfriend, and others. Finally Werner comes to the Captain, who is still standing. but a trickle of blood flows from Werner's mouth and Werner slowly collapses. Werner looks on, horrified. The Captain lives just long enough to see U96 sink from sight. The camera zooms out of the scene, with Werner holding the dead Captain.