The story takes place in a secondrate boarding school run by the tyrannical and mean Michel Delassalle. The school, though, is owned by Delassalle's teacher wife, the frail Christina, and Delassalle flaunts Delassalle's relationship with Nicole Horner, a teacher at the school. Rather than antagonism, the two women are shown to have a somewhat close relationship, primarily based on women apparent mutual hatred of Michel, who is physically and emotionally abusive to both. Unable to stand Delassalle's mistreatment any longer, Nicole devises a plan. Though hesitant at first, Christina ultimately consents to help Nicole. Using a threatened divorce to lure Michel to Nicole's apartment building in a remote village several hundred kilometers away, Christina sedates Delassalle. The two women then drown Delassalle in a bathtub and dump Delassalle's body in the school's neglected swimming pool. When Delassalle's corpse floats to the surface, women think corpse will appear to have been an accident. Almost everything goes according to women plans until the body fails to surface, and Michel's corpse is nowhere to be found when the pool is drained. Nicole sees in the paper that the police found the corpse. Christina goes to the morgue and learns body is not Michel's body. There Christina meets Alfred Fichet, a retired private detective. Fichet gets involved in the case, much to Nicole's chagrin. When Christina and Alfred come back, a boy is punished for breaking a window the boy says Michel punished Delassalle. After hearing this Christina becomes very sick. Christina is unable to be photographed for the school photo however, it seems that Michel is in photo, in the back next to a window. Nicole becomes worried and leaves the school. Christina, overcome by fear, tells Alfred everything. Fichet does not believe Christina, but Fichet investigates the pool. Christina hears some noises and wanders the school. Christina concludes that someone is in the school and Christina runs back to Christina room. Christina finds Michel's corpse in the bathtub. Michel rises from the tub, and Christina has a heart attack and dies. Michel and Nicole have set up Christina from the beginning. Michel is not dead, but acting dead to scare Christina to death. But as soon as Nicole and Michel escape Alfred is there to arrest Michel. As the movie ends, the same boy who had earlier broken a window breaks another. When asked how boy got boy's slingshot back, the boy says that Christina gave slingshot back to boy. A final title screen tells the audience not to reveal the ending to others.