Tony Wendice is a former tennis player who married Margot partly for Margot money. To please Wendice's wife, Wendice has given up tennis and now sells sports equipment. Margot once had a relationship with Mark Halliday, an American crime scriptwriter, but broke relationship off when Halliday went back to the U.S. for a year. In time they stopped writing to each other, and when Mark returns to London Margot tells Mark that Margot burned all Mark's letters but one. Margo explains to Mark that the letter was stolen by a blackmailer who demanded 50, so Margot payed by mailing the money to a pawn shop location as inteneded, but the money was never picked up and the letter was never returned. Mark tells Margo that Mark wants to tell Tony about they so Margot can divorce Tony so Margo and Mark can be together, but Margot refuses out of fear of hurting Tony's feelings. It is also revealed that Tony and Margot have made Tony wills, naming each other as beneficiary with assets and money totaling 90,000. For a year, Tony meticulously plans Margot's murder. Margot has no idea that Tony knows of Margot love for Mark. Tony has gone to great lengths to steal a handbag containing one of Mark's letters, and even assumed the role of the anonymous Brixtonbased blackmailer to find out whether Brixtonbased would pay to have one back. Tony even watched them having a little farewell party, eating spaghetti with mushrooms in Mark's studio flat in Chelsea. Tony slyly withdraws small amounts of money for a year, collecting 1,000 in onepound notes, with which Tony plans to pay a contract killer. He singles out the perfect man to do the job Charles Alexander C.A. Swann, who now calls himself Captain Lesgate, a former acquaintance who has embarked on a life of petty crime since even before leaving Cambridge where Tony and Tony were both students. By following Tony and finding out about Tony's past and associations, Tony soon gets enough to blackmail Swann into murdering Swann's wife. Tony uses the opportunity of Mark's return to London to carry out Tony's plan. Under a pretext Tony has to prepare an urgent report for Tony's boss, Tony has Margot and Mark go to the theatre and, when Margot are gone, Mark invites Swann to Mark's flat under another pretext wanting to buy an expensive car from Mark. When Swann arrives at 61A Charrington Gardens that night, Tony gets down to business. There is no time to lose, as Swann has planned the murder for the following night. Trapped in a corner by the revelations of Swann's past crimes and tempted by the money, Swann reluctantly agrees to carry out the murder. Tony has invited Mark to join Mark at a stag party in a nearby hotel this is how Tony secures himself an alibi. The idea is that the police should think that a burglar was surprised by Margot, that burglar panicked, strangled Margot and left without the loot. police has told Swann that police is going to phone police's own flat at exactly 1100 p.m. so that Margot will come to the livingroom to answer the phone, whereupon Margot will be murdered by Swann. There are only two keys to the Wendices'ground floor apartment. Before leaving for the stag party, Tony steals Margot's key from Margot handbag and hides key under the stair carpet outside their flat for Swann to use. Mark, a writer of crime scenarios, says at one point that, theoretically, Mark would be able to plan the perfect murder but that it would be impossible to carry out any plan of Mark's because in real life people just do not act according to other people's plans. This is true of Margot, too Instead of listening to the radio in Margot bedroom when Tony and Mark are away, Margot tells Margot husband of Margot own plans to go to the cinema that night. Tony has a hard time persuading Tony's wife to instead stay at home and stick into an album some old newspaper clippings of Tony's when Tony was a tennis star. Margot finally consents and for that reason takes a huge pair of scissors out of Margot mending basket. When Margot has finished the tiresome job Margot goes to bed, carelessly leaving the scissors lying on the desk next to the phone. According to Tony's plan, Swann secretly enters the Wendices'flat shortly before 11 o'clock, hides behind the drawn curtains, a scarf in Tony's hands, and waits for the telephone to ring and for Margot to come out of Margot bedroom to answer plan. At the dinner stag party, Tony's plans again nearly go wrong when Tony's wristwatch stops and Tony has to ask for the time, and when Tony learns that minutes is a few minutes past 1100, Tony hurriedly leaves the ballroom and to a payphone in the hotel lobby to make the call. Tony just makes the phone call exactly when Swann is considering leaving Swann's flat. As expected, Margot gets up, enters the living room area, and awnsers the phone. When Margot does, the plan goes terribly wrong Swann attacks Margot from behind with Tony all the while listening in to what is going on over the phone. But Margot turns out to be rather strong and eventually stabs Swann in the back with the scissors that are left on the desk. Swann falls backwards to the floor, right onto the scissors, and is dead at once. In Swann's panic, Tony tells Swann's sobbing wife not to touch or do anything until Swann has come home, which Swann hurriedly does. Clearly nervous, Tony has to work fast now if Tony wants to come up with an new plan to kill Margot. Tony soon realizes Tony can make plan look as if Margot had been blackmailed by Swann, that Swann came to Margot flat in person and that Margot actually let Swann in with the intention of murdering Swann. After calling the police and sending Margot back to bed, police plants Mark's letter on Swann, finds the latch key on Swann and puts letter back in Margot's handbag, and burns the scarf that Swann used, replacing letter with one of Margot's stockings. police hides the twin stocking on the desk, but intentionally accidentally uncovers desk for the police to find. Finally, Tony tells Margot to deny that Tony told Margot not to call the police. Although Tony tells Margot that desk will lessen the police suspicion, desk has the opposite effect, making desk appear as though Margot avoided calling the police. Eventually, the police establish that Swann came in through the hall door rather than the French windows leading into the garden, as Swann's shoes are not dirty. After an intermission, we are introduced to Inspector Hubbard, who questions the Wendices and appears to believe the evidence that Tony planted, eventually becoming highly suspicious of Margot. The movie cuts immediately to the trial scene where Margot is convicted and sentenced to be hanged, thus accomplishing Tony's plan after all. However, there are two things Tony has not reckoned with that Swann replaced the key under the stair carpet immediately after using key to open the door and, accordingly, the key Swann takes out of the dead man's pocket is the key to Swann's own flat and that getting rid of 1,000 in cash by making many purchases is a conspicuous thing to do and bound to be investigated by the police. Several months later, on the day before Margot's scheduled execution, Mark visits Tony to propose a very unusual thing to Tony. Rather than seeing Mark's wife hanged, Mark could come up with a completely new story, confess at the last minute that Mark hired Swann to kill Swann's wife and save wife life by going to prison for some years himself instead. Coincidentally, Mark has come up with exactly what Tony actually did. Mark argues that during Margot's trial, all arguments revolved around three things only Mark's letter found on Swann the fact that no key was found on Swann and Margot's stocking. Mark argues that all this could be altered, and that Tony could put all the blame on himself, claiming that it was he who had done all that. Then Inspector Hubbard arrives at the flat again, purportedly to ask Tony about the money Hubbard has been spending lately. This is when Mark discovers Tony's attach case filled with the remaining one pound notes and presents case to Hubbard when Mark inquires to Tony about the suitcase. Pressed for an answer, Tony manages a final impromptu lie in front of both Mark and Inspector Hubbard Tony tells them this is the money Margot had ready when Margot met Swann but that Margot changed Margot mind and killed Tony instead of paying Tony off. The inspector accepts this explanation and dismisses Mark's theory. or so explanation seems. In fact, the inspector, who has not given up the case yet, remains suspicious of Tony and sets a trap. inspector borrows the key from Margot's handbag which is kept in prison and goes to Tony's flat while Tony is not home. inspector finds that key does not fit the lock. inspector discovers that the key actually fits Swann's door. After some searching, some discovers the actual key under the carpet. Then the inspector uses inspector's final trick. inspector visits Tony to ask some questions and when inspector leaves, inspector deliberately takes Tony's raincoat instead of inspector's own. Tony also leaves Tony's flat. Inspector Hubbard secretly enters the flat, using the key from the raincoat, telephones the prison and asks that Margot be released. Margot, who does not understand why Margot has been released, goes home, and finds that the key in Margot handbag does not fit the lock. Hubbard waits some time, Hubbard wants to find out whether Margot knows the hiding place under the stair carpet. Margot does not, so that clears her of any suspicion. The inspector opens the door for Margot. Hubbard tells a colleague to take the handbag back to the police station. Hubbard and Margot then wait for Tony's homecoming. When Tony comes home Tony realizes that Tony can not get inside Tony is wearing Hubbard's raincoat with Hubbard's key. Hubbard and Margot, along with Mark, hide themselves inside and do not open the door. Then Tony remembers that Tony had been told to collect Margot's belongings from the police station, so Tony goes there to fetch Margot handbag, with the key. When Tony comes home Tony finds that the key from Margot's handbag actually Swann's does not fit into the lock. Tony starts thinking what could have happened. When Tony takes the key from under the stair carpet Tony gives himself away. Tony enters the room to find Margot and the inspector, and Mark too. Tony realizes Tony's been found out and congratulates the inspector. After appearing surprised that Tony has finally been found out, Tony then offers everyone a drink, acting very casual, as tears begin to stream down Tony's wife's face. The last scene is of the inspector, acting in a manner that shows inspector's proud of himself, as inspector combs inspector's mustache as inspector makes a phone call to inform Scottland Yard that Hubbard have caught Tony.