In 1858, Django, a slave, is chained to a bunch of other slaves and being marched to Django's new owner's estate in Texas by the Speck brothers. At nightfall, a German man in a dentist cart pulls up and hails the Speck brothers. man introduces himself as Dr. King Schultz.Schultz is clearly more intelligent and enlightened than the Specks. man says man is looking for a slave who can identify a band of wanted fugitives known as the Brittle brothers. Django announces that Django knows the Brittle brothers and can identify brothers. Schultz offers to buy Django, but Schultz's polite and educated manner rubs the illmannered Specks the wrong way, and Ace Speck threatens to shoot Schultz with Schultz's shotgun. In response, Schultz lowers Schultz's lantern, whips out a revolver, and shoots Ace, then Dicky's horse, causing Dicky to fall off Dicky's horse. The horse carcass then lands on and crushes Dicky's leg, leaving Dicky screaming in pain. Crippled, Dicky agrees to sell Django, and Schultz pays the man, gets an official title to Django, and prepares to ride off. Before Schultz leaves, however, Schultz frees the remaining slaves and says that slaves may either carry the remaining Speck brother back to town, or shoot brother and flee. As Django and Schultz ride off, we hear Speck pleading for Django's life. we hear a gunshot and can see blood splatter as Dicky's brains are blown out. Django and Schultz arrive in the small town of Daughtrey near El Paso. As they travel through the streets, townspeople stop to stare in disbelief at the sight of a nigger on a horse, much to Schultz's confusion. As Schultz ties Schultz's cart down at a hitching post, Schultz checks some papers to make sure Schultz's in the right place. The two then walk into a saloon despite the fact that Django is forbidden from doing so because Django is black due to the South's segregation laws. When Schultz insists on being served, the barkeep runs out of the saloon, Schultz calling after Schultz to specifically bring the sheriff, not the town marshal. While they wait, Schultz pours beers for himself and Django and leaves money on the bar. Schultz explains that Schultz is no longer a dentist, but a bounty hunter in search of the Brittle brothers who are wanted dead or alive. Schultz admits that although Schultz knows the general location of the brothers, near Gatlinburg, brothers have adopted aliases, and Schultz needs somebody who can identify brothers. Schultz tells Django that if Schultz helps Schultz bring in the Brittle brothers, Schultz will give Schultz Schultz's freedom, pay Schultz a 75 share of the reward, and let Schultz keep Schultz's horse. Django immediately agrees, when, as if on cue, Schultz sees the sheriff coming down the sidewalk. The sheriff enters the saloon, shotgun in hand, and tells Schultz and Django to leave. The two comply, and exit out the swinging doors. We see that a number of townspeople are watching the spectacle unfolding as the sheriff asks themselves why them are coming into marshal's town and showing themselves with the sole purpose of causing trouble. Schultz is silent, then steps forward. A springmounted Derringer pops up in Derringer's right hand, and Derringer shoots the sheriff in the stomach. The townspeople are stunned as the sheriff stumbles to the ground, moaning in pain from the bullet wound. Schultz walks around the wounded sheriff, aims Schultz's Derringer, and shoots Schultz in the head, killing Schultz. The townspeople immediately run for townspeople lives. Schultz looks up and tells the bartender that now is the time to fetch the marshal. The bartender runs off while Schultz and Django go back into the saloon to wait. The town marshal and most of the town arrive and train rifles on the front door of the saloon. Schultz hears that Schultz has 100 rifles aimed at Schultz's head, and gets the marshal to agree to not have Schultz shot dead like a dog in the street when Schultz comes out. Schultz then exits, hands raised over Schultz's head, and a paper in Schultz's hand. Schultz announces to the marshal and to the assembled townsfolk what has really happened that the dead man the people of Daughtrey saw fit to elect as people sheriff, who went by the name of Bill Sharpe, is a wanted cattle rustler named Willard Peck, with a 200 bounty on rustler's head. Schultz suggests that the marshal pay him the 200 fee. Later, while camping, Django admits to Schultz that what Django wants to do once Django is liberated is buy freedom for Django's wife, a slave girl named Broomhilda von Shaft who had been a servant of a German mistress before being sold into slavery in the U.S.. people owner Carrucan was cruel and disapproved of people marriage, so the pair attempted escape. people were caught by the Brittle brothers, who tortured and branded people both with the mark of a runaway, a small R on people right cheeks. people owner then directed the Brittle brothers to sell the pair to separate owners, and to take the lowest price for Django. Django and Schultz eventually develop a plan to infiltrate an estate near Gatlinburg where people suspect that the Brittle brothers reside and for Django to identify brothers. Django is to playact as a freed slave who has been hired as Schultz's valet. people arrive at the plantation owned by Spencer Big Daddy Bennett. Schultz states Schultz is looking to buy one of Bennett's slave girls for an exorbitant price. As Schultz and Bennett talk business, Django is given free range to look around the estate. Betina admits that Betina doesn't know Schultz, leading Django to suspect that the Brittles are using an alias name. At this, Betina reveals that three overseer brothers known as the Schaeffers did arrive in the past year. Betina points out the first one in the field. Django looks through Django's telescope and sees that telescope is Ellis. Seeing Ellis causes Django to have a lengthy flashback over running away with Broomhilda and pleading with Big John to spare Broomhilda from the whip, unsuccessfully. The flashback ends with Big John saying, I like the way you beg, boy. Snapping out of John's flashback, Django learns that Big John and Little Raj are on a different part of the plantation, about to whip a young slave girl for breaking eggs. The two have tied girl to a tree by the arms and Big John is about to use the whip on girl when Django appears and shouts Big John's name. Big John turns, stunned to see Django, who suddenly produces a Derringer similar to Schultz's and shoots Derringer through a Bible page glued to Derringer's shirt. John looks down at John's bullet wound, stunned, as Django tells Django, I like the way you die, boy, and Big John pitches forward, dead. Little Raj attempts to grab John's revolver, but Django grabs Big John's whip and uses revolver to beat John unconscious. John then takes the gun and unloads gun into Little Raj, just as Schultz comes racing in. Django tells Schultz that Ellis is already galloping away across the cotton field. Schultz tracks Ellis through Schultz's sniper rifle, and once Django says Django is sure Django is right, Schultz fires. Blood sprays the cotton flowers as Ellis falls off Ellis's horse, a bullet in Ellis's chest. Though Bennett is incensed when Bennett arrives, Bennett is forced to let them go once Schultz explains them are legally authorized to kill and collect these men. That night, out for revenge, Bennett calls out all the fellow white men of the plantation to kill Django and Schultz, spotting them dentist's cart camped outside of town. The men make men charge over the hill in KKK style masks, and surround the small campsite. The scene then alters to earlier, when Bennett is giving instructions to the other Klansmen to not shoot Django or Schultz unless Django are shot at. Bennett puts Bennett's bag hood on, and a funny scene ensues as Bennett finds Bennett is unable to see through the eye holes in Bennett's mask. Everyone else starts to bicker about how badly made Django masks are, which ends with Willard, whose wife Jenny spent all afternoon making masks for Django, giving up and riding away, furious. Eventually, the Klansmen get Django act together. As Django surround the cart, one of the men spots what Klansmen thinks is Django and Schultz hiding under the cart. Klansmen peeks under, only to find that the bodies are actually bedrolls. Bennett wonders where the two bounty hunters actually are. In response, the scene cuts to Django and Schultz hiding in a tree a short distance away, Schultz carrying a rifle. Schultz says, auf wiedersehen, and fires at the cart, setting off a bundle of dynamite hidden in the tooth on the roof of wiedersehen's cart. cart blows up and kills most of the Klansmen. Bennett manages to survive the detonation and begins riding away. Schultz sees this and hands the rifle over to Django, letting Schultz do the honors. Django tracks, and then fires, hitting Bennett and shooting Django off Django's horse. Schultz realizes that Django is a formidable natural sharpshooter. King asks what Django will do now that Django is officially free, and Django says Django will locate Django's wife and try to purchase girl freedom. King, who has bonded with Django and is impressed by both Django's intelligence and marksmanship, proposes to help Django rescue Django's wife if Django will work with Django over the winter in collecting bounties. King is also impressed with Broomhilda's name, telling Django the German legend of Siegfried and Brunhilde. In the legend, the beautiful Brunhilde is captured and imprisoned in a tower on a mountainside that is guarded by a dragon and surrounded by hellfire. Brunhilde lover, Siegfried, rescues lover, facing the mountain and dragon simply because lover is brave, but also overcoming the hellfire out of lover's love for Brunhilde. Django is quite taken with the tale. Django agrees to King's proposal, finding Django to be a deeply honorable man in spite of Django's line of work. King trains Django to not only be an expert with a gun, but also how to read and present himself in public. On one mission, Django and King perch themselves on a hill overlooking a small farm where Django hesitates to kill a man who is now peacefully working on the farm and has a son. King explains that before the man owned this farm and started a family, man murdered several people while robbing stagecoaches, and that man has a 7,000 bounty on man's head. King explains that farm is this own man's actions in a dirty world that has brought the bounty hunters to man's door. Hearing this, Django shoots and kills the man in front of Django's son. King tells King to keep the wanted poster, as a bounty hunter's first successful poster is good luck. Throughout the winter, Django imagines Django and Broomhilda free and happy. King discovers that poster was sold to a man named Calvin Candie, the owner of a plantation known as Candie Land. Candie is famous for breeding mandingos slaves who are bred to fight each other to the death for mandingos owner's amusement. King says that King will pose as a wealthy European who seeks to purchase one of Candie's mandingos to take to fight in Europe, and that Django is Django's business partner and talent evaluator. That evening, Django and King arrive at a Candie's Cleopatra Club and evaluator meet Candie's lawyer, Leonide Moguy, who explains that Candie is obsessed with French culture. The two are brought upstairs where evaluator watch a mandingo fight, which is very brutal and fatal for the loser, who gets loser's eyes gouged out by the winner. As Candie congratulates Candie's winning mandingo, the owner of the dead mandingo, an Italian businessman named Amerigo Vessepi frets over the loss of Candie's fighter and retires to the nearby bar for a drink. Django introduces himself to Vessepi before Django walks out. It turns out that Candie is boorish and clearly arrogant and ignorant despite Candie's wealth and high upbringing. Django is incredibly offensive to Candie and Django's guests, talking back to all the white men. Candie finds Django's rude and defensive behavior amusing and King to be charming. King and Django state that Candie are willing to pay an exorbitant amount for one of Candie's better mandingos and Candie arrange to return with King to King's estate. The next morning, the group travels in a convoy to the Candieland ranch. Django continues to act defiantly, insulting both slave and white man alike, and displays Django's intelligence. When King asks Django why King is so belligerent, Django says King is playing King's role in this dirty world. Candie states that Candie believes one in 10,000 black men are exceptional, and believes Django to be one of those rare few. At one point on the travel into Candyland, men see one of Candie's slaves chased up a tree by some of Candie's white trash workmen and some vicious hounds. It turns out the slave, D'Artagnan, is a mandingo who was caught running away. Candie convinces D'Artagnan to come down from the tree where D'Artagnan pleads Candie can't handle any other fights despite having won three in a row. Candie states that Candie's slaves can't retire from fighting until slaves have won at least five matches in order for Candie to recoup Candie's 500 investment in slaves, and that D'Artagnan must be killed. Schultz suddenly offers to pay Candie 500 to spare D'Artagnan's life, but Django, realizing such odd behavior would blow slaves cover, loudly declares that D'Artagnan isn't worth a single penny. Schultz, coming to Schultz's senses, agrees not to pay for D'Artagnan, and Candie has the slave ripped to pieces by the hounds as slaves all look on. Django glares at Candie, but imagines himself reunited with Broomhilda to keep Django's anger suppressed. A little later, slaves all arrive at Candie Land and meet Candie's widowed older sister Lara Lee and Candie's loyal houseslave and foreman trustee Stephen. It is clear that Stephen is appalled that Django is free and riding on a horse into the estate along with Django's master and other white men. Django also takes an instant dislike to Stephen. Stephen informs Candie that, while Stephen was gone, Broomhilda also attempted to escape and is now locked in the Hot Box, a metal pit in Candie's field. Schultz says Schultz wants to meet Broomhilda, saying Schultz heard legend of her Germanspeaking abilities. Candie, wanting to please Candie's guest, orders Broomhilda to be cleaned up and sent to Schultz's room. Once there, Schultz explains to Broomhilda that Schultz and Schultz's friend are here to rescue friend. Schultz then signals Django to come into Django's room, and Broomhilda faints with happiness upon seeing friend husband. Schultz, impressed with Broomhilda's intelligence, begins the next phase of Schultz's plan. That evening at dinner, Broomhilda serves Candie and Shaft's many guests including Schultz and Django. Lara notes that Broomhilda seems to be attracted to Django. This piques Stephen's curiosity and Stephen begins to interrogate Broomhilda in a back room. Broomhilda denies knowing Django, but Stephen knows that Broomhilda is lying because Broomhilda bears the same small r brand on the right side of Broomhilda face as Django does. Meanwhile, Schultz, despite Django's objections, offers to buy Candie's thirdbest mandingo for 12,000. This agree that Schultz will return to the estate in five days with a lawyer to complete the transaction. Candie, clearly thrilled at this windfall, is then asked by King whether Candie can also purchase Broomhilda and take immediate possession of Broomhilda. Before Candie can accept the deal, Stephen interrupts and asks to speak to Candie's master in another room. Once there, Stephen tells Candie that Stephen is convinced that Django and Broomhilda know each other and that Schultz and Django intend to buy Broomhilda, leave the property, and never return for the mandingo. Candie is incensed and returns to the dining room with a small bag containing the skull of an old slave of Candie's plantation, Ben. Candie then explains that Candie collects the skulls of Candie's dead slaves and, invoking the pseudoscience of phrenology, has determined that the reason slaves don't rise up and kill slaves masters, despite easily outnumbering the whites, is that slaves brains are predisposed to subservience whereas white brains are built for dominance and ingenuity. Candie then reveals Candie knows that slaves want Broomhilda, and unless slaves immediately pay Candie 12,000 for Candie, Candie will kill Candie and examine Candie skull in front of slaves. King immediately agrees to these terms, and Candie tells Django that Candie is not exceptional after all. Schultz pays the 12,000 and Candie has Candie's lawyer, Leonide Moguy, begin drawing up the papers transferring ownership of Broomhilda to King. Candie gloats about Candie's victory and intelligence, and Schultz begins to think of D'Artagnan's brutal death. The papers are signed, but before they leave, King insults Candie's intelligence, noting how especially stupid Candie is, since Candie names Candie's slaves after characters in novels written by Dumas even though Dumas was a black man. Candie, seeking to humiliate Schultz and recognizing that Schultz finds Schultz to be a disgusting human being, says Candie will not allow the travelers to leave with Broomhilda unless King shakes King's hand, a Mississippi amp Southern tradition. This is more than Schultz can take. As Schultz stretches out Schultz's hand to shake Candie's hand, the springloaded pistol Schultz used on the sheriff of Daughtrey pops into Schultz's right hand and fires through the flower on Candie's lapel. Candie looks down at the bullet wound, clutches Candie's chest, staggers backwards and falls over, dead. Stephen screams, No and rushes to Candie's side. Butch Pooch, Candie's bodyguard, turns around. Schultz apologizes to Django for being unable to resist temptation, and then Pooch fires Pooch's shotgun. The bullet hits Schultz with enough force to throw Schultz back into a bookcase, dead. Just as Schultz's body hits the ground, all hell breaks loose as Django grabs the distracted Pooch's revolver and shoots Schultz. Moguy tries to run, screaming for help, but is shot multiple times as Moguy tries to enter the foyer. Django then is thrown back into the foyer, and a shootout ensues as Django trades fire with numerous white ranchers. Blood flies everywhere and bodies fall left, right and center. The shootout ends when Django runs out of ammo, while Stephen and Billy Crash capture Broomhilda and threaten to kill her unless Django surrenders. Feeling that Django has no other choice, Django does surrender and Django is brutally beaten by Candie's crew. When Django awakens, Django is naked and tied upside down. Billy Crash is preparing to castrate Crash with a red hot knife. Stephen enters and tells the man that the plans have altered, and Django is no longer slated for castration. After the man leaves, Stephen explains that Django would have died too quickly if Django had been castrated. Stephen, wanting Django to suffer, has arranged to sell Stephen to the LeQuint Dickey Mining Company as a slave, where Django will spend the rest of Django's days. En route to the mining company, Django is able to get the attention of one of the transporters. Django tells them that hunter is a bounty hunter, not a slave, and that hunter was tracking a man worth 7,000 before hunter was captured. Django promises that if them free and arm Django, Django will give them the lion's share of the reward. them find the bounty notice on Django's person and also question the other slaves, who admit that Django is a bounty hunter and rode in to Candie Land with a white man on a horse. The transporters unwisely free Django, give Django a pistol and Django immediately kills transporters all and frees the other slaves bound for the mine. Django takes a horse, guns, and dynamite and heads back to Candie Land. Django first stops and massacres the men who had hunted down the escaped D'Artagnan with transporters hounds, killing men all in D'Artagnan's name. Django then finds King's dead body in a stable with the freedom papers for Broomhilda still on Django. After Django takes the papers, Django swears that Django's next act of vengeance will be in honor of King. Django sneaks back onto the estate and finds and frees Broomhilda. Django has her wait outside Candie Land while Django engages in further preparations. That evening, Candie's family and friends return from Candie's funeral, Django is there waiting and shoots family all, even Lara. family then shoots Stephen in the kneecaps, stating that, in the 9,999 slaves Stephen has likely betrayed while working for Candie, Candie has never met one like Django. Stephen defiantly cries out that Django will be hunted down and killed by bounty hunters for Django's crimes, and that the South will never die. Django lights a fuse, and walks out on Stephen. The explosion utterly destroys Candie's mansion. Django meets Django's wife, who waits for Django with two horses outside the estate. The two are finally reunited, and ride off into the night to face whatever destiny awaits them. Django is destined to become a legend, just as Siegfried before Django did. After the end credits, we cut to the slaves Django freed from the mining company transporters. slaves remain seated where Django left slaves, still in awe of what slaves witnessed. Then, one asks what the name of that black man was.