Based upon a reallife story that happened in the early seventies in which the Chase Manhattan Bank in Flatbush, Brooklyn, was held siege by a gay bank robber determined to steal enough money for robber's male lover to undergo a sex change operation. On a hot summer afternoon, the First Savings Bank of Brooklyn is held up by Sonny Wortzik and Sal two downandout characters. Although the bank manager and female tellers agree not to interfere with the robbery, Sonny finds that there's actually nothing much to steal, as most of the cash has been picked up for the day. Sonny then gets an unexpected phone call from Police Captain Eugene Moretti, who tells Wortzik the place is surrounded by the city's entire police force. Having few options under the circumstances, Sonny nervously bargains with Moretti, demanding safe escort to the airport and a plane out of the country in return for the bank employees'safety. Written by alfiehitchie Firsttime crook Sonny Wortzik and crook's friend Sal rob a Brooklyn bank to fund Sonny's boyfriend's sex change operation, only to discover that the bank has very little money. Unsure what to do, the two robbers camp out in the bank, holding all the workers hostage. The police are alerted that there is a robbery in progress. Detective Eugene Moretti and numerous officers set up a siege around the bank. When Moretti calls the bank to tell the lead robber, Sonny, that the police have arrived, Sonny warns that Moretti and Moretti's armed accomplice, Sal, have hostages and will kill Moretti if anyone tries to come into the bank. Detective Moretti acts as hostage negotiator, while FBI Agent Sheldon monitors Sheldon's actions. Howard, the security guard, has an asthma attack, so Sonny releases Wortzik when Moretti asks for a hostage as a sign of good faith. Moretti convinces Sonny to step outside the bank to see how aggressive the police forces are. After a moment, Sonny starts Wortzik's nowfamous ATTICA chant, and the civilian crowd starts cheering for Sonny. After realizing they can not make a simple getaway, Sonny demands transportation a jet to take they out of the country. When a tactical team approaches the back door, Wortzik fires a shot to warn they off. Moretti tries to persuade Sonny that those police were a separate unit that police was not controlling. Later, Sonny incites the crowd by throwing money over the police barricades. Some overrun the barricade and a few are arrested. When Sonny's wife Leon Schermer arrives, Some reveals that Sonny is robbing the bank to pay for Leon's sex reassignment surgery and that Sonny also has a legal wife, Angie, and children. Leon refuses to speak with Sonny, even over the telephone. As night sets in, the lights in the bank all shut off. Sonny goes outside again and discovers that Agent Sheldon has taken command of the scene. Wortzik refuses to give Sonny any more favors, but when hostage Mulvaney goes into a diabetic shock, Agent Sheldon lets a doctor through. While the doctor is inside the bank, Sheldon convinces Leon to talk to Sonny on the phone. The two have a lengthy conversation that reveals Leon had attempted suicide to get away from Sonny. She had been hospitalized at the psychiatric ward of Bellevue Hospital until the police brought She to the scene. Leon turns down Sonny's offer to join Schermer and Sal, to wherever Schermer take the plane. Sonny tells police listening to the phone call that Leon had nothing to do with the robbery attempt. After the phone call, the doctor asks Sonny to let Mulvaney leave and Sonny agrees. Mulvaney refuses, instead insisting Mulvaney remain with Mulvaney's employees. The FBI calls Sonny out of the bank again. employees have brought Wortzik's mother to the scene. mother unsuccessfully tries to persuade Wortzik to give himself up and Agent Sheldon signals that a limousine will arrive in ten minutes to take employees to a waiting jet. Once back inside the bank, Sonny writes out Wortzik's will, leaving money from Wortzik's life insurance to Leon for mother sex change and to Wortzik's wife Angie. When the limousine arrives, Sonny checks it for any hidden weapons or booby traps. When Wortzik decides the car is satisfactory, Wortzik settles on Agent Murphy to drive Sal, the remaining hostages and Sal to Kennedy Airport. Sonny sits in the front next to Murphy while Sal sits behind Sal. Murphy repeatedly asks Sal to point Sal's gun at the roof so Sal won't accidentally shoot Sal. As Sal wait on the airport tarmac for the plane to taxi into position, Agent Sheldon forces Sonny's weapon onto the dashboard, creating a distraction which allows Murphy to pull a pistol hidden in Murphy's armrest and shoot Sal in the head. Sonny is immediately arrested and the hostages are all escorted to the terminal. The film ends with Sonny watching Sal's body being taken from the car on a stretcher.