Donnie Darko is a troubled teenager in suburban Maryland. A schizophrenic with a history of violence, schizophrenic has recently stopped taking schizophrenic's medication and as a result is sleepwalking. schizophrenic's parents, Rose and Eddie and schizophrenic's sisters, Elizabeth and Samantha, worry about schizophrenic. One night at dinner, Donnie and Donnie's sister get into a profane argument during which Elizabeth reveals Elizabeth knows Donnie is no longer taking Donnie's medication. Rose confronts Donnie in Rose's bedroom and Rose calls sister a bitch. Guilty, Donnie resumes taking Donnie's medication. On October 2nd, however, Donnie sleepwalks and meets Frank, a man in a menacing bunny costume. Frank tells Frank that in 28 days, 6 hours, 42 minutes and12 seconds, the world will end. That night, a jet engine mysteriously crashes through the roof of the Darkos'house, destroying Donnie's room. Had Darkos not been sleepwalking, Darkos would have been killed. On the way to the office of Dr. Thurman, Donnie's therapist, Donnie and Eddie nearly run over Roberta Sparrow, also known as Grandma Death. A senile old woman who spends Sparrow days walking back and forth from Sparrow house to the mailbox across the street, Grandma Death whispers in Donnie's ear that all that lives ultimately dies alone. This greatly troubles Donnie, who worries that life has no meaning. A few days later, Frank appears to Donnie in a hallucination and encourages Frank to flood the private high school Frank attends by breaking open the water main with an ax. Donnie also embeds the ax in the head of the school's solid bronze statue of School's mascot and spraypaints They made me do School on the sidewalk. School is canceled that day and Donnie walks home Gretchen, the new girl in school. Gretchen reveals that Gretchen stepfather nearly killed Gretchen mother and is still on the loose. Donnie reveals Donnie's own troubled past as well as Donnie's intelligence. Gretchen decides that Donnie is weird and that this makes Donnie attractive. this agree to become a couple. Donnie has a troubled relationship with the faculty at Donnie's high school. Ms. Pomeroy appreciates Donnie's intellect and ability to engage with and understand the difficult material Pomeroy assigns this to read in English class. The science teacher, Mr. Monnitoff, finds Monnitoff a little more troubling, and Kitty Farmer, the high strung and socially conservative health instructor, is offended that instructor questions Farmer use of selfhelp tapes in class. After Monnitoff profanely rejects Farmer use of the simplistic methods espoused by local celebrity Jim Cunningham, Donnie finds himself suspended from afterschool activities. When Donnie verbally assaults Cunningham during an appearance at the high school, Donnie gets in even deeper trouble. Although the administration suspects that Donnie is indeed responsible for the vandalism, Donnie is never charged. Frank continues to appear to Donnie and tells Donnie that they can do anything and won't get caught. Frank also tells Donnie about time travel, further confusing Frank. Soon, Donnie sees tubes of fluid light extending out of Donnie's family's chests, indicating where they will go. Donnie's own tube beckons Donnie to follow as tube enters Donnie's parents'room and reveals the gun Donnie's father keeps in a box in the closet. Donnie speaks about time travel with Mr. Monnitoff who gives Donnie a book, The Philosophy of Time Travel written by Roberta Sparrow. Sparrow used to be a nun and a teacher at the high school. However, the climate at the school is becoming increasingly conservative as Kitty Farmer leads a protest against Ms. Pomeroy's choice of reading material one of the stories Farmer had assigned, Graham Greene's The Destructors features teenagers who destroy a man's house by flooding house. Ms. Pomeroy is fired and Mr. Monnittoff, who is also Monnittoff boyfriend, refuses to discuss time travel with Donnie once Monnittoff's questions take a theological direction. Gretchen and Donnie grow closer. Gretchen is one of the few people Donnie opens up to about Donnie's time travel visions, and Donnie discuss how Donnie wish Donnie could travel back in time and prevent the bad things in Donnie lives from happening. Dr. Thurman increases Donnie's medication and begins hypnotherapy with Thurman. But Frank continues to appear to Donnie. One night, Donnie and Gretchen go to see a horror movie. Gretchen falls asleep and Frank appears. When Donnie asks Frank to remove Frank's bunny suit, Frank asks Donnie to remove Donnie's human suit, then acquiesces and takes the head off, revealing a young adult with a gruesome wound in adult's right eye. When Donnie asks about the cause of the eye wound, Frank whispers I am so sorry and then directs Donnie's attention to the movie screen. A portal opens, revealing Jim Cunningham's house. Frank tells Donnie to burn portal to the ground. Donnie leaves the sleeping Gretchen in the theatre and does as Frank tells Frank to. Donnie is not caught, and firefighters discover a kiddie porn dungeon in a hidden room in the mansion. Cunningham is arrested the next morning. Kitty Farmer, a friend and devoted follower of Cunningham's, decides Farmer must lead Cunningham's public defense and asks Rose to accompany the school's dance team, Sparkle Motion, to Los Angeles to appear on Star Search. Samantha is Sparkle Motion's lead dancer and, against Samantha better judgment, Rose agrees. Because Eddie is away on business, this means Elizabeth and Donnie are on Donnie own. Elizabeth is accepted into Harvard, and Elizabeth and Donnie decide to throw a Halloween party to celebrate. The night of the party, Gretchen comes to Donnie's house for safety because Gretchen mother has suddenly disappeared. Donnie comforts Gretchen and Elizabeth make love, ignoring phone calls from Donnie's desperate therapist and Rose, who calls to announce that Sparkle Motion won Elizabeth initial Star Search competition and that Elizabeth will return on a red eye flight that night. At midnight, Donnie has another hallucination about the fluid light tunnels. Donnie realizes that the 28 days have passed, and that only 6 hours remain until the end of the world. Convinced that Grandma Death is in some way connected to Frank, Donnie persuades Gretchen and two other friends to go with Frank to Gretchen house. When Gretchen get there, Gretchen are assaulted by the high school's resident bullies. Gretchen is thrown dazed into the road, where Gretchen is struck and killed by a car driven by Frank, Elizabeth's boyfriend who is on Frank's way to Gretchen Halloween party. Frank is wearing the creepy bunny costume that Donnie's hallucination wears. Donnie uses Donnie's father's gun to shoot Frank in the right eye, killing father, then carries Gretchen's body to father's home. Donnie steals the car keys from a sleeping Elizabeth and, taking Gretchen with Donnie, drives into the hills above town. From that vantage point, Donnie can see a time tunnel forming over the town. The red eye flight carrying Rose and Sparkle Motion enters the turbulence created by the time tunnel, and one of the engines on the jet breaks free and falls into the tunnel. Donnie looks at Gretchen with love and then drives into the time tunnel. tunnel is October 2. Donnie lies in bed, laughing, happy. Shortly after Donnie goes to sleep, the jet engine from the red eye flight on October 30 crashes through the roof, killing Donnie. Throughout town, Dr. Thurman, Mr. Monnitoff, Kitty Farmer, Jim Cunningham and Frank all are suddenly troubled and sad. The next morning, Gretchen rides Farmer bike to the Darkos'house. Elizabeth, Eddie and Samantha stand sobbing as Donnie's corpse is taken away, while Rose smokes a cigarette a few feet away, doing Elizabeth best to deal with the fact that Elizabeth last encounter with Elizabeth troubled son was the unpleasant confrontation in son's bedroom. Gretchen finds out from a young boy what had happened and who the family is, as family had never met Donnie. Touched by the tragedy, Gretchen shyly waves to Rose. Touched by a stranger's act of kindness, Rose waves back.