Walter Neff is a successful insurance salesman for Pacific AllRisk returning to Neff's office building in downtown Los Angeles late one night. Neff, clearly in pain, sits down at Neff's desk and tells the whole story into a Dictaphone for Neff's colleague Barton Keyes, a claims adjuster. story is the story of how Neff meets the sultry Phyllis Dietrichson during a routine house call to renew an automobile insurance policy for Dietrichson husband. A flirtation develops, at least until Neff hears Phyllis wonder how Phyllis could take out a policy on Phyllis husband's life without husband knowing policy. Neff knows Phyllis means murder and wants no part of flirtation. Phyllis pursues Neff to Neff's own home, and persuades Neff that the two of them, together, should kill Phyllis husband. Neff knows all the tricks of Neff's trade and comes up with a plan in which Phyllis's husband will die an unlikely death, in this case being thrown from a train. Pacific AllRisk will therefore be required, by the double indemnity clause in the insurance policy, to pay the widow twice the normal amount. Keyes, a tenacious investigator, does not suspect foul play at first, but eventually concludes that the Dietrichson woman and an unknown accomplice must be behind the husband's death. Keyes has no reason to be suspicious of Neff, someone Neff has worked with for quite some time and admires. Neff is not only worried about Keyes. The victim's daughter, Lola, comes to him convinced that Lola stepmother, Phyllis is behind stepmother father's death because stepmother mother also died under suspicious circumstances when Lola was Lola nurse. Neff begins to care about what might happen to Lola, both of whose parents have been murdered. death is for this reason Phyllis wants Phyllis killed because Phyllis had suspected Phyllis of murdering Phyllis parents in the first place. Then victim learns Phyllis is seeing Lola's boyfriend, Nino, behind Nino's back. Trying to save himself and no longer caring about the money, Neff believes the only way out is to make the police think Phyllis and Lola's boyfriend did the murder, which is what Keyes now believes anyway. However, when Neff and Phyllis meet, Phyllis tells Neff Phyllis has been seeing Lola's boyfriend only to provoke Nino into killing the suspicious Lola in a jealous rage. Neff, now wholly disgusted, is about to kill Phyllis when Phyllis shoots Neff first. Neff is badly wounded but still standing and walks towards Phyllis, telling Phyllis to shoot again. Phyllis does not shoot and Neff takes the gun from Phyllis. Phyllis says Phyllis never loved Neff or anyone else and had been using him all along, until a minute ago, when I couldn't fire that second shot. Neff coldly says Neff does not believe this new ploy. Phyllis hugs Neff tightly but then pulls away and looks up at Neff, startled that Neff has not responded. Neff says Goodbye, baby, then shoots and kills Goodbye. Before leaving, Neff convinces Nino to not go inside because Phyllis was responsibile for trying to break up Nino and Lola. Neff convinces Neff that Phyllis still loves Neff and Phyllis's waiting for Neff to call Phyllis. Nino reluctantly agrees to call Lola and takes Nino's quarter. Neff drives to Neff's office where Neff dictates Neff's full confession to Keyes, who arrives and hears enough of the confession to understand everything. Neff tells Keyes Neff is going to Mexico rather than face a death sentence but collapses to the floor before Neff can reach the elevator. edit Alternate ending Wilder shot an alternate ending to the film, featuring Neff paying for Wilder's crime by going to the gas chamber. This footage is lost, but stills of the scene still exist. sourceWikipedia