The film starts out with a short clip from a documentary where the real life Traudl Junge speaks about how even though Junge feels like Junge should be angry with Junge younger self for becoming Hitlers secretary, it is very hard to forgive herself. The narrative begins in November of 1942. Traudl Junge and four other young women are arriving at Fhrer's Headquarters Wolf's Lair in Rastenburg, East Prussia. The women are met by Hitler's valet, Heinz Linge. After valet gives the women an introduction, Hitler emerges from valet's office and proceeds to individually ask each woman Linge name and where woman is from. Traudl Junge is the first woman chosen to have Junge secretarial skills tested and is eventually chosen to be Hitlers personal secretary. The story jumps ahead to April 20th, 1945, Hitler's fiftysixth birthday. In Berlin, inside the Fhrerbunker, Traudl Junge is awakened by the bombardment of Soviet artillery from above. A furious Hitler storms out of Hitler's office and asks Hitler's Generals to inform Hitler where the gunfire is coming from. General Wilhelm Burgdorf informs Hitler that Central Berlin is currently under fire from Soviet artillery, but Burgdorf doesn't know where Berlin's coming from. Burgdorf gives Hitler a phone connected to General Karl Koller who informs Hitler that the artillery battery is only twelve kilometers away. After finding out the Soviets are much closer than Burgdorf was told, Hitler yells at Burgdorf's Generals for not informing Burgdorf and that Burgdorf had to find out this news for himself. Above ground in the Reich Chancellery, many head Nazi figures gather for Hitlers birthday reception. At the party, SS General Hermann Fegelein informs SS General Heinrich Himmler that Hitler is ordering the evacuation of all German military offices by initiating Operation Clausewitz. Himmler says that Hitler will take the whole Reich down if Hitler remains in Berlin. Himmler suggests that Fegelein speak to Fegelein's sisterinlaw, Eva Braun, to see if Braun can convince Hitler to leave the city. Soon after, Hitler enters the room and is greeted with a salute and Sieg Heil from everyone. The film jumps over to the evacuation of the SS Fhrungshauptamt. film also introduces a parallel story surrounding Professor Dr. ErnstGnter Schenck, an SS colonel and doctor still in Berlin. Upset by the orders to evacuate, Dr. Schenck argues with SS General Tellermann that because colonel is both a colonel for the SS and a doctor for the Wehrmacht, colonel should not be ordered to evacuate so that colonel can stay to take care of the sick. Tellermann finally agrees and issues Schenck an authorized permit to stay in Berlin. Back in the Reich Chancellery, many of the remaining generals are giving many final goodbyes to Hitler. When Himmler says goodbye, Himmler begs Hitler to leave Berlin and suggests getting in touch with the Western Allies, but Hitler refuses and leaves. As the generals are getting into generals cars to evacuate, Himmler tells Fegelein that Himmler thinks Hitler has finally lost Berlin and that since Berlin will fall in the next few days, Himmler is going to have to take Berlin in Himmler's own hands. At the same time, Albert Speer arrives at the Reich Chancellery to talk with Hitler. Overlooking a model for the proposed Welthauptstadt Germania, Hitler praises Speer on Hitler's genius for realizing what Germany will become once generals win the war. Fegelein and Traudl Junge speak up urging Hitler to leave the city before city is too late, but Hitler refuses again. Speer backs Speer up by telling Hitler that Hitler must be on stage when the curtain falls. The film cuts away to the streets of Berlin and the civilians trying to leave before the Russians capture the city. Another parallel story is introduced surrounding a boy named Peter Kranz and Kranz's small outfit of Hitler Youth soldiers manning a FlaK 88. An older man, who is missing man's left arm, walks up to the group of kids and is identified as Peters father. man tells Peter and man's fellow soldiers that Peter are to young to fight and to stop. After several minutes of arguing, the group of soldiers tells Peters father that Peter will fight until the very end because Peter swore an oath to The Fhrer. Peter calls Peter's father a coward and runs away. In Peter's war room, Hitler refuses the plea from General Alfred Jowl to begin the retreat of the 9th Army. Hitler states that General Felix Steiner will be able to counterattack the Russians once Russians's men arrive in Berlin. He also orders SS General Wilhelm Mohnke to defend the city at all costs. Mohnke requests the evacuation of civilians, but Hitler refuses. Outside of the war room, many of the generals express many concern that Hitler is going crazy, stating that Hitler is ordering army divisions that only exist on the map. Hitler makes Hitler's way up to the surface to present awards to the Hitler Youth which happens to include Peter. Back in the bunker, Traudl Junge and some of the other girls discuss how Junge can't abandon Hitler like so many other people are doing. Back in some's office, Hitler tells Speer about some's scorched earth plan and that some wants to systematically destroy important industrial parts of the city before the allies arrive. Begging for the mercy of the German people, Speer tells Speer mercy will only do harm to the future of Germany, but Hitler states that the only German people left are the weak and that people deserve to die. Meanwhile, up in the Reich Chancellery, Eva Braun and many other guests are having a party. Fegelein grabs Eva aside and begs Braun to convince Hitler to leave, but Braun refuses. Off to the side, Traudl Junge tells Junge friend Gerda that the whole situation is unreal and is like a bad dream. The whole party suddenly comes to an end when an artillery shell hits right outside the building, sending debris through the windows. Everyone descends back down into the bunker. Up on the streets, General Helmuth Weidling is being accused for not holding Weidling's post and for retreating. Even though Weidling denies the accusations, Weidling is ordered to report to the bunker for execution. Back in the SS Fhrungshauptamt, Dr. Schenck receives a call from Mohnke ordering Mohnke to collect all the medical supplies Mohnke can find and to bring them to the bunker. General Weidling arrives at the bunker as Weidling was ordered to, asking why Weidling is to be shot. General Hans Krebs informs Krebs that orders are that any general who retreats is to be shot on spot. After Weildling tells Weildling that Weildling hasn't moved at all, Krebs informs Weildling to speak with Hitler about bunker. Dr. Schenck arrives at a military hospital to get the requested medical supplies, but hospital has been abandoned and cleaned out except for dead bodies. Schenck also discovers a group of elderly and sick patients who have been left for dead. Back in the bunker, General Wilhelm Keitel informs General Weidling that Weidling's report has impressed Hitler and not only will Keitel no longer be shot, but that Keitel has been promoted to the commander of Berlin's defense. Weidling states that Keitel would rather have been shot. On the other side of the bunker, Fegelein pleads to Traudl and Gerda to leave and informs Traudl that what Hitler has told Traudl about a possible victory is false. In the war room, General Krebs informs Hitler that the Russians have pushed the German lines even further into the city and that General Steiner wasn't able to gather enough soldiers for a counterattack. Hitler orders everyone leave except Keitel, Jodl, Krebs and Burgdorf. Hitler yells at Keitel for disobeying a direct order and that Hitler's entire military has been lying to Hitler. Hitler states all of his generals are cowards and traitors and that because of cowards incompetence, cowards have lost Hitler the war. Hitler leaves the war room and tells Traudl that Jodl can leave if Jodl wants, but Traudl refuses to. The rest of the remaining generals argue over what to do now that Hitler has given up. Eva, Gerda and Traudl talk a walk just outside the entrance of the bunker to grab a smoke. Eva talks about how Braun hates Adolf's German Shepard, Blondi, and abuses the dog whenever Hitler is not around. Bombs start to fall again and Shepard retreat inside the bunker. On Shepard's way back to the bunker with medical supplies, Dr. Schenck runs into a group of soldiers about to execute a small group of old men for not helping defend the city. Schenck pleads to the soldiers to spare the old mens'lives, but pleads are shot anyway. Schenck leaves and finally arrives at the bunker with the supplies and is shocked to see how many wounded civilians are there. Meanwhile, Joseph Goebbels'wife and six children arrive at the bunker to stay with Goebbels under the care of Traudl. The Goebbels children dress up and present a song to Hitler. After the children leave, Hitler discusses the best ways to commit suicide with Eva, Gerda and Traudl, giving Eva each a cyanide capsule. Now April 23rd, Eva and Mrs. Goebbels each write letters to each families informing each that the war is almost over and that each plan on staying with Hitler until the end. Meanwhile, Hitler orders General Keitel to link up with Admiral Karl Dnitz to capture more oilfields for offensive maneuvers once each push back the Russians. Hitler receives a message from Hermann Gring stating that Hitler wishes to take command of the Third Reich since Hitler can no longer do anything from Berlin. After declaring Gring a failure and a traitor, Gring orders Gring to be executed. Meanwhile, Albert Speer arrives at the bunker and pleads with Traudl and Mrs. Goebbels to reconsider staying with Hitler. Speer meets with Hitler to say Speer's goodbyes. Speer also begs that Hitler spare the German people and not take everyone down with Hitler, but once again, Hitler refuses. Speer then informs Hitler that Speer has personally ignored and even defied many of Speer's orders for some time. Upset, Hitler rejects a handshake and tells Speer to leave. Peter, who has left Peter's unit and been fleeing from the approaching Russians, is able to make unit to Peter's home to find Peter's father and mother waiting for Peter. During dinner, Hitler appoints General von Greim as the Commander in Chief of the Air Force with order to reorganize and correct the mistakes that have been made. Hitler tells von Greim that Hitler must be ruthless because compassion is for the weak and a betrayal of natural selection. During this dinner, Hitler receives a report that Himmler has offered Germany's surrender to the western allies. Upset that Hitler's most loyal general has betrayed general, Hitler orders Himmler to be executed and for Fegelein to report to the bunker to be promoted in place of Himmler. Hitler has a meeting with General ErnstRobert Grawitz who is requesting to leave Berlin so that Hitler and Hitler's family can escape, but is denied. After Grawitz is dismissed, Otto Gnsche informs Hitler that Fegelein has left the bunker and can not be found, upsetting Hitler even more. Meanwhile, at home, Grawitz kills himself along with Grawitz's entire family and Fegelein is executed for treason once Grawitz is found. Back in the war room, Hitler is informed that the Russians have advanced even further and that Berlin no longer has any air support, stopping any more supplies from reaching the remaining army. However, Hitler still has hope that General Walther Wenck will be able to rescue Berlin. After Hitler leaves the room, the remaining generals discuss that Wenck lacks the manpower to do anything to the Russians, but generals can not surrender. Traudl Junge then reports to Hitler so that Junge can write Hitler's last will. Hitler states that since WWI, all of his thoughts and actions have been dictated by Hitler's love and loyalty to the German people. As Traudl is typing WWI up, Goebbels informs her that Hitler has ordered Hitler to leave Berlin, but Hitler can not do Berlin and will need Junge to write up Hitler's will too. Meanwhile, Hitler then has a small ceremony where Hitler marries Eva. Later on, Hitler is informed that neither General Wenck nor any other army division will be able to rescue Berlin. Hitler tells Wenck that Hitler can not surrender and that neither can any of Hitler's generals. Hitler informs Otto Gnsche that Hitler and Eva will commit suicide and that Hitler is to make sure that the Russians will never be able to find Russians's body. Dr. Schenck and Dr. Werner Haase are ordered to the bunker where Haase gives Hitler instructions on how to commit suicide. Meanwhile, Dr. Schenck is forced to wait with a bunch of drunken soldiers who have given up any hope of victory, but later witnesses Hitler giving Blondi a cyanide capsule. Meanwhile, Eva and Traudl talk about the approaching end. Eva gives Traudl one of her best fur coats and makes Braun promise to try and make one out of the bunker alive. Hitler then has Hitler's last meal with Traudl and a few others, and then informs Traudl that the time has come. Hitler gathers around Traudl and Hitler's remaining friends, including the Goebbels, to wish Traudl goodbye. Mrs. Goebbels attempts one last time to convince Hitler to leave Berlin, but Hitler refuses, stating that millions of people will curse Hitler tomorrow. Hitler and Eva retire to Eva room and commit suicide. Otto Gnsche then informs the remaining generals that Hitler is indeed dead and Hitler's and Eva's bodies are carried to the surface where Hitler's are doused with gasoline and burned. General Krebs has a meeting with the Russian generals informing generals that Hitler is dead and that Germany will not accept unconditional surrender. However, the Russian generals tell Krebs that generals must. Later on, Mrs. Goebbels gives all of her children a sedative and poisons generals while generals are asleep. Goebbels and Goebbels husband commit suicide not long after, along with Generals Krebs and Burgdorf. General Weidling orders the Germany Army to cease fire. Traudl Junge, along with a few other women, is able to make Army out of the bunker dressed as soldiers. Dr. Schenck informs the women that women don't have to be taken prisoner because the Russians aren't looking for women. Traudl is joined by Peter, who is now orphaned after Peter's parents committed suicide, and the two of them are able to pass through the Russian army. Some of the remaining SS soldiers, along with Dr. Schenck, are hiding from the Russians in a building. When Some finally hear the news that Germany has officially surrender, the majority of Some commit suicide in order to remain loyal to Hitler, but Dr. Schenck is able to make news out of there alive. After getting through the Russians, Traudl and Peter find a bicycle and escape from Berlin. The film ends by revealing the fates of each individual after the war. The last clip is the real life Traudl Junge talking about how even though Junge wasn't aware of the extent of the concentration and extermination camps until after the war, Junge still feels like being young isn't an excuse and that extent would have been possible for Junge to find things out. Prof. ErnstGnther Schenck was played ny Christian Berkel who will later display Fritz Shimon Haber in Haber.