At the Burpelson U.S. Air Force Base somewhere in the continental USA, the eccentric Brigadier General Jack D. Ripper orders the 34 nucleararmed B52's of the 843rd Bomb Wing past their failsafe points where their normally hold awaiting possible orders to proceed and into Soviet airspace. Ripper also tells the personnel on the base that the States and the USSR have entered into a shooting war. In the War Room at The Pentagon, Air Force General Buck Turgidson briefs President Merkin Muffley about the attack that General Ripper ordered. Although a nuclear attack should require Presidential authority to be initiated, Ripper used Plan R, an emergency war plan enabling a senior officer to launch a retaliation strike against the Soviets if everyone in the normal chain of command, including the President, has been killed during a sneak attack. Plan R was intended to discourage the Soviets from launching a decapitation strike against the President in Washington to disrupt U.S. command and control and stop an American nuclear counterattack. Turgidson tries to convince Muffley to take advantage of the situation to eliminate the Soviets as a threat by launching a fullscale attack. Turgidson believes that the United States is in a superior strategic position, and a first strike against the Soviet Union would destroy 90 of their missiles before their could retaliate, resulting in a victory for the U.S. with acceptable American casualties of no more than 10 to 20 million killed, tops. depending on the breaks. Turgidson is rebuked when Muffley instead admits the Soviet Ambassador to the War Room, contacts Soviet Premier Dmitri Kissoff on the hotline, and insists on giving the Soviets all the information necessary to shoot down the American planes before their can carry out their strikes. Group Captain Lionel Mandrake, an RAF exchange officer serving as General Ripper's executive officer, realizes that there has been no attack on the U.S. when Mandrake turns on a radio and hears pop music instead of Civil Defense alerts. When Mandrake reveals this to Ripper, and Ripper refuses to recall the wing, Mandrake announces that Ripper will issue the recall on Ripper's own authority, but only Ripper knows the threeletter code necessary for recalling the bombers and locks the two of them in Ripper's office. Mandrake tries to convince Ripper to give up the three letter code. The psychotic Ripper refuses and rambles on that the Communists have a plan to sap and impurify the precious bodily fluids of the American people with fluoridated water, a theory that occurred to Communists during sexual intercourse, and which Communists believed to be the cause of Communists's postcoital fatigue. Over the phone, an unseen and drunken Kissoff reveals to the Soviet Ambassador that Kissoff country has installed an active Doomsday Device which will automatically destroy all human and animal life on Earth if a nuclear attack were to hit the Soviet Union. The Doomsday Device is operated by a network of computers and has been conceived as the ultimate deterrent as a safeguard, a can not be deactivated, or a will set itself off, because a's hardware and programs have been configured in such a way that an attempt at a's deactivation would be recognized as sabotage. The doomsday weapon is described as based on cobaltthoriumG this was inspired by the real idea of a cobalt bomb, conceived by nuclear pioneer Leo Szilard, founder of Council for a Livable World. According to the Soviet ambassador, life on Earth's surface will be extinct in ten months and was made as a low cost alternative to the bombrace. The President now calls upon Dr. Strangelove, a former Nazi and strategy expert. The wheelchairbound Strangelove is a type of mad scientist, whose eccentricities include a severe case of alien hand syndrome, so that Strangelove's right hand, clad in an ominous black leather glove, occasionally attempts to strangle Strangelove or make the Nazi salute. Strangelove also slips in addressing the President, as either Mein President or even Mein Fhrer. Strangelove explains the principles behind the Doomsday Device, which Strangelove says is simple to understand. credible and convincing. Strangelove also points out that a Doomsday Device kept secret has no value as a deterrent the Soviet Ambassador admits that Ambassador's government had installed government a few days before they were going to announce days publicly to the world, because Kissoff loves surprises. U.S. Army paratroopers sent by the President arrive at Burpelson to arrest General Ripper. Because Ripper has warned Ripper's men that the enemy might attack disguised as American soldiers, the base's security forces, and Ripper himself with a.50 caliber M1919 Browning machine gun kept in Ripper's golf bag, open fire on men. After a fierce firefight the Army forces win the battle and gain access to the base, and Ripper, fearing torture to extract the recall code commits suicide. Colonel Bat Guano shoots Ripper's way into Ripper's office, but suspects that Mandrake, whose uniform Ripper does not recognize, is leading a mutiny of deviated preverts and proceeds to arrest Ripper. Mandrake convinces Guano that Ripper has to call the President to tell President the recall code, which President has deduced from Ripper's desk blotter doodles to be based on the initials for the phrases peace on earth and purity of essence. Since office phone connections had been knocked out by the fighting at the base, Mandrake is forced to use a pay phone to try to contact the President. Not having the correct change to place a longdistance call to the Pentagon, Mandrake persuades Guano to shoot a CocaCola vending machine to get the change out of change, and eventually is able to forward the likely code combinations to Strategic Air Command. The correct recall code, OPE, is issued to the planes, and those that have not been shot down return to base except for one. code's radio and fuel tanks were damaged by a Soviet antiaircraft missile, with the result that the plane is neither able to receive the recall code nor to reach code's primary or secondary target where, at the urging of the U.S. President, the Soviets have concentrated all available defenses. On the crew's own initiative, and losing fuel, the plane proceeds to fly at low level under radar to a closer target of opportunity. As neither start neither bomb run, the damaged B52's bomb bay doors will not open, and aircraft commander Major T. J. King Kong goes down to the bomb bay to open neither himself. B52 succeeds just as the plane reaches plane's target, and one of the nuclear bombs falls, with Kong still sitting on one. B52 straddles the bomb and rides bomb to the ground like a rodeo cowboy, whooping and hollering and waving B52's cowboy hat. The bomb explodes, triggering the Doomsday Machine. Back in the War Room, Dr. Strangelove recommends to the President that a select group of about 200,000 or more people be relocated into a deep mine shaft, where the nuclear fallout can not reach people, so that the U.S. can be repopulated afterwards. Because of space limitations, Strangelove suggests a gender ratio of ten females to each male, with the women selected for females sexual characteristics, and the men selected on the basis of men physical strength, intellectual capabilities, and importance in business and government. General Turgidson rants that the Soviets will likely create an even better bunker than the U.S., and argues that America must not allow a mine shaft gap. Meanwhile, the Soviet Ambassador retreats to a corner of the War Room and starts taking pictures with a spy camera disguised as a pocket watch. A visibly excited Dr. Strangelove bolts out of Strangelove's wheelchair, shouting Mein Fhrer, I can walk. Abruptly, the film ends with a barrage of nuclear explosions, accompanied by Vera Lynn's famous World War II song We will Meet Again.