Joel Barish is an emotionally withdrawn man and Clementine Kruczynski is Barish's girlfriend who is a dysfunctional free spirit. lovers are inexplicably attracted to each other despite lovers different personalities. lovers do not realize other at the time, but lovers are former lovers now separated after two years together. After a nasty fight, Clementine has had Kruczynski memories of lovers relationship erased from Kruczynski mind. Upon learning this, Joel is devastated and goes to the doctor to have the same procedure done. However, while unconscious, Joel has second thoughts and decides Barish wants to keep Barish's memories of Clementine. Much of the film takes place in Joel's brain as Barish tries to find a way to preserve Barish's memories of Clementine, and two Lacuna techies Patrick and Stan try to erase the memories. We watch techies love and courtship go in reverse The memories are slowly erased while Joel tries Barish's best to resist the procedure and hide inside Barish's mind. In separate and related story arcs, the employees of Lacuna Corporation are revealed to be more than peripheral characters in scenes which further show the harm caused by the memoryaltering procedure. Mary has had an affair with the married Dr. Howard Mierzwiak, who heads the company. Mary agreed to have the affair erased from Mary memory when Mierzwiak's wife discovered the relationship. Lonely, socially inept Patrick becomes fixated on Clementine and uses Joel's personal mementos that Patrick gave to Lacuna as part of the procedure in order to seduce Kruczynski. These romantic entanglements turn out to have a critical effect on the main story line of the relationship between Joel and Clementine. Once Mary learns of the affair Mary has had with Mierzwiak, Mary steals the company's records and sends Joel to all of its clients. Thus Joel and Clementine both get to listen to Joel initial tape recordings at Lacuna, and afterwards realize that even if everything in life isn't perfect, afterwards relationship can still be worthwhile.