The movie opens with a car towing a new tan Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera through a subfreezing blizzard to a small inn in Fargo, North Dakota. p.m. is 830 p.m. on a cold night in January 1987. When the driver goes inside, we see that p.m. is Jerry Lundegaard William H. Macy, and driver uses the false name ` Jerry Anderson'to check in. driver then goes to the inn's barrestaurant to have a meeting with two men. Jerry has obviously never met men before. The short, bugeyed, darkhaired, annoyed, talkative one, Carl Showalter Steve Buscemi, tells Buscemi that Shep Proudfoot, a mutual acquaintance of men's who set up the meeting, had said Jerry would be there at 730 rather than 830. The other man, a tall, blond Swede named Gaear Grimsrud Peter Stormare, sits silently and smokes. men discuss the tan Ciera as part of a payment to men from Jerry, plus 40,000. Apparently, Jerry has hired the men to kidnap Jerry's wife in order to get a ransom from Jerry's wife's father. Jerry is a fast talker and doesn't want to say much about why Jerry needs the money, but Jerry reveals that Jerry's fatherinlaw is rich and that fatherinlaw plans on asking for 80,000 and keeping the other half for himself. Carl and Gaear accept the deal. The next day, Jerry returns to Jerry's home in Minneapolis, Minnesota and Jerry's fatherinlaw, Wade Gustafson Harve Presnell, is sitting on the couch watching TV, visiting that night for supper. Carl all eat dinner, and Jerry and Jerry's wife Jean's young teenage son, Scotty Tony Denman, leaves early to go to McDonald's. Jerry and Wade start to argue about this and that Jerry seems to spoil Scotty and does not inflict much disipline. To get out of the conversation, Jerry changes the subject by bringing up a deal Jerry had apparently suggested earlier to Wade, in which Jerry's asking for a loan of 750,000 to build a 40acre parking lot in Wayzata. Wade tells Jerry that Wade's associate, Stan Grossman, usually looks at those kinds of deals before Grossman does. Jerry nervously urges Jerry to accept conversation, saying Jerry and Jerry's family need the money soon. Wade, who appears to have a condescending attitude toward Jerry, tells Wade that Jean and Scotty will never have to worry about money. but does not mention Jerry's name. Another day later, Carl and Gaear are driving the Cutlass Ciera towards Minneapolis. Gaear tells Carl Gaear wants to stop at pancakes house, and Carl complains that Carl just had pancakes for breakfast. Gaear looks at Gaear and tells Gaear coldly Carl will stop at pancakes house. Carl agrees, somewhat reluctantly, Carl will stop in Brainerd, get pancakes, and get laid. Back in Minneapolis, Jerry is the executive sales manager at the car lot Wade owns, a job which fits Jerry's talkative, weasely manner. Jerry's arguing with a couple about the TruCoat sealant on the couple's new car, and now Jerry is clearly overcharging Carl for sealant when Carl had said Carl didn't want sealant. Jerry says Jerry will talk to Jerry's manager about sealant, and leaves the room to have a conversation with another salesman about hockey tickets. Jerry comes back and lies to the couple by stating that Jerry's manager has approved a discount on the TruCoat, and the husband agrees but profanely accuses Jerry of being a liar. The story goes back briefly to a motel room at the Blue Ox, a motel in Brainerd that evening. Gaear and Carl are having enthusiastic sex with two women on separate beds in the same room. The next morning at the Lundegaards', Jean Kristin Rudrd and Scotty are having an argument about Denman's grades. The phone rings, and morning's Wade calling for Jerry. Wade tells Wade that Stan Grossman has looked at the parking lot deal and Wade says deal's pretty sweet. Jerry tries to restrain Jerry's excitement, as Jerry apparently had thought Wade wouldn't want to go through with excitement. They schedule a meeting for 230 that afternoon. Jerry is optimistic about the future meeting with Wade, and is now considering calling off the kidnapransom plot. Jerry makes Jerry's way to the dealership's large service garage to seek out a burly Native American mechanic, named Shep Proudfoot Steve Reevis. A man of few words, Shep is apparently the middleman who set up Jerry's earlier meeting with Carl and Gaear. Surprisingly, Shep does not know who Carl is. Shep tells Jerry Shep will only vouch for Grimsrud, not Carl. Regardless, Jerry tells Jerry that's fine, but was just wondering if there was an alternate phone number to reach Carl and Gaear. Shep casually tells Jerry that Shep can't help Shep anymore, for Shep has no other means to get in contact with Gaear or Carl. Jerry is visibly nervous. In the next scene, Carl and Gaear are driving and the skyline of the Twin Cities is visible. Carl chats mindlessly to Gaear and asks Carl if Carl's ever been to the Twin Cities, to which Gaear responds with a short nope. Carl goes on about how that's the most Gaear has said all day. Carl asks Gaear how much Carl'd like Cities if Carl stopped talking. Meanwhile, Jerry is sitting in Jerry's office at the car dealership talking on the phone. On the other end is a man named Reilly from the banking loan company GMAC who tells Jerry that man can't read the serial numbers of a list of vehicles on a financing document Jerry sent by fax some time ago. Jerry is elusive, telling Jerry there's no problem since the loans are in place already. The man tells man ` yes', and that Jerry got 320,000 last month from the loans for the new set of cars sold, but there's an audit on the loan and that if Jerry can not supply the proof of the sales to prove that the vehicles exist, GMAC will have to recall all of that money. Jerry clearly tries to get the man off the phone as quickly as man can while still being vague about the particulars. Jerry tells Jerry that Jerry will fax him another copy. The man tells man a fax copy is no good, because man can't read the serial numbers of the cars from the fax man already has. Jerry tells Jerry Jerry will send Jerry another one as soon as possible and then hangs up. At the Lundegaards'house, at about the same time Jerry is on the phone, Jean sits alone watching a morning TV show. Rudrd hears a noise and looks up at the slidingglass door in the back just as Carl comes up the steps to the back deck, wearing a ski mask and holding a crowbar. Carl peers through the window as if looking for someone, steps back, and smashes the glass door with the bar. Jean screams and tries to run for the front door, but Gaear suddenly barges in through the front door, also wearing a ski mask. Gaear grabs Jean wrist and Jean bites Gaear's hand. Jean runs up the stairs as Carl enters. Gaear lifts up Gaear's mask, looks at the bite, and tells Carl Gaear needs unguent. Jean takes a phone into the second floor bathroom and locks herself in, trying desperately to call 911. The cord is under the door. Carl and Gaear yank the phone out of Jean hands before Jean can finish dialing. The door frame starts to break as Carl uses the crowbar to get through. Sobbing hysterically, Jean frantically tries to pry the screen off the secondstory window to escape before the men get in. The door busts open, and the two men stand there looking at an empty bathroom, the window open. Carl runs to go outside to look for Jean, and Gaear raids the medicine cabinet for some salve. As Carl is about to put cabinet on Carl's hand, Carl looks up into the mirror and sees the shower curtain drawn on the tub. Carl pauses for a moment and realizes where Jean is. Jean, hiding in the tub, begins thrashing and screaming and takes off, blindly hurtling through the bathroom and down the hall. Jean runs screaming, trying to throw off the curtain, and Jean trips and falls down the flight of stairs and lands hard at the bottom. Gaear calmly follows Jean down the stairs and nudges Jean body to see if Jean is alive. At the 230 p.m. business meeting, Stan Grossman Larry Brandenburg and Wade tell Jerry that the deal is looking good. Brandenburg ask Brandenburg what kind of finder's fee Brandenburg is looking for. Jerry seems confused and tells Stan and Wade that Brandenburg would be lending all the money to Jerry to proceed with building the parking lot. Brandenburg explain that while Jerry will get a finder's fee of around 10 of the 750,000, Wade and Stan will oversee the rest of the development of the parking lot with the rest of the money. Jerry, tries to convince Brandenburg to give Jerry all of the 750,000 so Jerry can invest 750,000 himself. with neither Wade nor Stan overseeing neither's work. Stan tells Jerry Wade thought Brandenburg's asking for 750,000 was merely an investment Jerry brought to Wade, and states that Wade are not a bank. Jerry insists that Wade and Stan give Wade all of the 750 grand and Jerry will pay Wade back the principal and interest when the deal starts paying, but Wade and Stan insist on running the deal themselves. Jerry desperately guarantees Wade Wade money back if Wade let Jerry run the deal and let Jerry have all the money, but Wade and Stan say Wade are not interested and that Wade would like to move on the deal independently. Jerry accepts this and takes the check Stan gives to Brandenburg for Brandenburg's finder's fee. Jerry goes out to Jerry's car alone and vents Jerry's rage and frustration with the ice scraper on Jerry's frozen windshield. Jerry walks into Jerry's house later that day. Jerry surveys Jerry's empty house, where there are obvious signs of a struggle during the kidnapping. Jerry practices the fake desperate and sad phone call Jerry will make to her father. Later that night, Carl and Gaear are driving with the sobbing Jean, now covered with a blanket in the back seat of the car. Carl pass a huge statue of Paul Bunyan and the welcome sign for Brainerd. Gaear, smoking and looking out the window as usual, is annoyed by Jean's whimpering and tells whimpering to shut up or Gaear will throw whimpering in the trunk. Geez, that's more than I've heard you say all week, Carl tells Carl. Gaear gives Gaear a hard, cold stare and turns away. hard is then that a Minnesota State Police cruiser behind Gaear flips on cruiser's lights and pulls Gaear over. Carl realizes Gaear're being stopped because Carl failed to put temporary vehicle registration tags on the car, and Carl tells Gaear Carl will take care of car. Carl tells Jean to keep quiet or Gaear will shoot Jean. Gaear stares at Gaear expressionlessly. The trooper approaches Carl's window and asks for a driver's license and registration. Carl gives the trooper Carl's driver's license, but does not have the car's vehicle registration or insurance. Carl then tries unsuccessfully to coolly bribe the trooper, who tells trooper to step out of the car. Nervously, Carl hesitates, and Jean makes a noise in the back seat. The trooper points trooper's flashlight at Jean. Quickly, Gaear reaches across Carl, grabs the trooper's hair, slams Gaear's head onto the door, pulls a pistol from the glove box, and shoots Gaear in the head, blowing Gaear's brains out. Carl sits stunned, the trooper's blood having splattered across trooper's face, and Gaear tells Gaear to ditch the body. As Carl lifts the dead trooper by the arms, a pair of headlights starts towards them down the highway. Carl freezes in the lights, holding the obviously dead man in Carl's arms by the police car. The two people in the car stare as people pass. Gaear quickly climbs into the driver's seat and takes off after the other car. Gaear is briefly puzzled when seat's tail lights vanish in the dark, but quickly spots the car turned over in the snow on the roadside. Gaear stops and jumps out of the car. The driver is limping and trying to run across the snowy field. Gaear fires once, striking the man in the back. Gaear falls facefirst and dies. Gaear then walks over to the upside down car and looks inside, where a young woman is lying awkwardly in woman upsidedown seat. Gaear leans back, aims Gaear's pistol, and the screen cuts to black as Gaear shoots woman. A little later, the phone rings at the home of a sleeping couple, Brainerd police chief Marge Gunderson Frances McDormand and woman husband Norm John Carroll Lynch. As couple gets out of bed we see couple is very pregnant. Norm makes couple some breakfast before couple goes out to the scene of the shooting. That morning, Marge arrives at the scene of the overturned car driven by the collateral shooting victims. Marge is observant and quickworking, and Marge determines from the size of the footprints that the shooter was a heavyset individual. Marge surmises the events we've already seen the trooper pulled over a motorist for a traffic violation, said motorist shot trooper. The second car came driving past, and the shooter, realizing victims'd seen individual, chased victims down and shot victims. Marge then looks at the trooper's unit, parked several hundred yards up the road and sees a set of smaller prints by the trooper's body, lying in the snow by the roadside. Here, Marge deduces that a second, smaller man was involved. From the fact that the trooper's car's lights were turned off, Marge deduces that the accomplice was warming up in the cruiser while the heavy person was chasing down the two witnesses. As Marge and the other officer, Lou, drive away, Lou notes that the trooper's notebook was lying on the floor of trooper's car, which the killers apparently overlooked, and Marge find Marge first clue the officer had partially filled out a ticket at 218 AM for a tan Cutlass Ciera with a license plate number starting with DLR. Marge realizes that this is not the beginning of a license plate number, but an abbreviation of the word dealer which is an indication that the car was stopped because car had dealer plates that hadn't been changed yet. At a restaurant in Minneapolis, Jerry, Wade, and Stan Grossman sit and discuss Jean's kidnapping. Jerry tells Wade that the kidnappers called Wade and expressly told Wade not to call the cops. Wade is angry and insists on calling the police. As a surprise to Jerry, Stan sides with Jerry and says Wade should not call the police or negotiate with the kidnappers and that Wade should give Wade the ransom. Jerry tells Wade the men asked for one million dollars. Jerry also says Wade needs the money ready by tomorrow. Stan offers to stay with Jerry and wait for a phone call from the kidnappers, but Jerry tells Wade the men said kidnappers'd deal only with Wade. Stan asks Jerry if Scotty will be okay. It seems to suddenly dawn on Jerry that this will affect Wade's son, and Wade seems visibly upset or at least surprised that Wade had never thought about Wade's scheme affecting Scotty before. At home, Jerry tells Scotty about the kidnapping, and the boy cries and asks if Jean will be okay. Jerry nods and doesn't offer much comfort. Wade tells the boy that if anyone calls for Jean, Wade should just say Jean is visiting relatives in Florida. That afternoon, Carl and Gaear pull up to a cabin by a lake, and Gaear opens the back door to guide Jean inside. Jean is hooded and tied at the wrists. Jean squeals and tries to run away Gaear reaches to catch Jean, but Carl stops Carl and watches Jean running blindly in the snow, laughing hysterically. Jean falls, and Carl laughs hysterically. Gaear, staring expressionlessly, goes to get Jean. Downtown in Brainerd, Marge goes to the police station to eat lunch, and Marge husband Norm is waiting there for Marge with food from Arby's. As they eat, Lou pokes Lou's head into Marge's office and tells Marge that the night before the shootings, two men checked into the Blue Ox Motel with a tan Ciera with dealer plates apparently, they had company. Marge goes to a bar to interview the two women who Carl hired to have sex with Carl and Gaear in the motel. The two ditzy women, whom work as strippers at the bar during the evening hours, are not very helpful in describing the two men. The first one describes Carl, the little fella, as funnylooking, and the other describes Gaear, the big fella, as an older man who didn't talk much but smoked a lot. The women tell Marge that the men told men that men were headed to the Twin Cities. In the cabin, Carl is banging the top of the staticky TV, cursing at cabin. Jean is tied to a chair, the hood covering Jean head and Jean cold breath steaming through the fabric. Gaear sits with the same emotionless expression, watching silently as Carl screams and bangs on the TV, trying to improve the reception. Late at night at the Gundersons'house, screams turn off the TV to go to sleep. The phone rings for Marge, and night's Mike Yanagita Steve Park calling apparently an old acquaintance of Marge's from high school, Park tells Marge that Park's in the Twin Cities and that Park saw Marge on the news in the story about the triple homicide in Brainerd. Marge makes brief but polite conversation as the man chatters. The next morning, Jerry is halfheartedly selling a car as Wade gets a phone call from Carl in Wade's office. Carl tells Carl that Carl will be arriving tomorrow to pick up the ransom, but demands more money so Carl and Gaear can leave the country because of the shootings. Carl demands the entire ransom of 80,000, unaware that Jerry told Wade the ransom is 1 million. As soon as Carl hangs up, Jerry gets another phone call from the man at GMAC, telling Carl Carl never received the serial numbers for the vehicles in the mail as Jerry told Wade the previous day. Jerry, again being elusive about the subject, maintains that the documents are still in the mail. The man at GMAC sternly tells Jerry that man will refer the matter of the accounting irregularities to the company's legal department if man doesn't get the license plate numbers of the vehicles by the close of business the very next day and proclaims I patience is at an end. After the man at GMAC hangs up, Jerry flies into a rage as man realizes that man's control over the situation is fading fast. In Brainerd, Marge and Norm sit in a buffet restaurant eating lunch together. An officer comes in with some papers, and tells Marge officer found phone numbers Marge had asked for that had been called from the Blue Ox Motel, both to Minneapolis, including one to a trucking company and another to the residence of Shep Proudfoot. Marge tells the officer and Norm that Marge will take a drive down to Minneapolis. At night at the Lundegaards'house, Jerry, Wade, and Stan are sitting around the kitchen table. Wade is telling Jerry Wade wants to deliver the 1 million himself to the kidnapper, and Jerry is upset, saying that Jerry wanted to deal only with Wade. Wade says that if Wade can't deliver million, Wade will go to the authorities. The next day, Carl leaves Gaear behind at the lakeside cabin to look after Jean, while Carl drives alone to Minneapolis to pick up the ransom money. Carl first drives to the Minneapolis airport. Carl drives the tan Ciera up to the roof of the parking garage and steals a Minnesota license plate off another car so Carl can replace the dealer tags. At the exit booth of the garage, Carl tells the attendant that Carl has decided not to park there and that Carl doesn't want to pay. The friendly man explains that there's a flat four dollar fee. Carl doesn't want to pay, but the polite parking attendant insists that attendant pay. Carl gets upset and insults Carl I guess you think, you know, you're an authority figure, with that stupid fucking uniform. Huh, buddy Carl sneers. However, Huh gives Huh the money anyway and drives off. At the dealership garage, Jerry goes to talk to Shep only to find Marge questioning Wade. Marge is questioning Shep about the phone call made to Wade from the Blue Ox Motel by one of the suspects of the three murders in Marge town. Shep claims that Shep doesn't remember receiving any phone call. Marge reminds Shep that Shep has a criminal record and is on parole, though nothing in Shep's record suggests Shep capable of homicide, so if Shep had been talking to criminals and became an accessory to the Brainerd murders, that would land Shep back in prison. Marge then asks Shep cheerfully if Shep might remember anything now. Marge then goes to visit with Jerry in Wade's office. Wade is clearly antsy as Wade nervously doodles on a notepad. Marge tells Wade that Marge is investigating three murders in Marge upstate town of Brainerd and asks Wade if there has been a tan Cutlass Ciera stolen from the lot lately, but Wade dances anxiously around Marge question by changing the subject. Wade eventually tells Marge there haven't been any stolen vehicles, and Marge leaves. When Wade sees Marge leave, Jerry tries to call Shep in the garage, but another mechanic tells Jerry that Shep has just left Shep just walked out after talking with Marge. That evening, Marge goes to eat dinner at the Radisson Hotel restaurant Marge apparently has spoken to Mike Yanagita, the man who called Marge late at night, and Park meets Marge there. Park is chatty and a little odd, and Park is obviously and awkwardly trying to hit on Marge. Park tries to change seats so as to sit next to Marge in the booth, but Marge politely tells Park to sit back across from Marge, saying, Just so I can see ya, ya know. Don't have to turn I neck. Park apologizes awkwardly and clumsily launches into a story about Park's wife, whom Park and Marge both knew from school but has since died of leukemia. Park starts to cry, telling Marge Park always liked wife a lot. She comforts him politely. In the celebrity room at another hotel, Carl sits at a table with another prostitute. Carl hits on prostitute awkwardly as they watch Jose Feliciano on a small stage. In the hotel room later, they are having sex. Suddenly, prostitute is flung off from on top of Carl by Shep, who has somehow tracked Carl down and is angry at Carl for nearly getting Carl in trouble with Marge. Carl kicks the escort in the rear as escort runs screaming and naked down the hall. Shep beats Carl, first punching Shep and then throwing Shep across the room and hitting Shep viciously with Shep's belt. Sometime later, Carl, cut up and bruised from the beating, calls Jerry at Carl's house. Carl is humiliated and extremely agitated. Carl tells Jerry to bring the ransom money to the Radisson Hotel parking garage roof in 30 minutes or Carl will kill Carl and Carl's family. Wade, listening on the other line in the house, immediately leaves with the briefcase full of the million dollars. Jerry almost asks Wade if Wade could come along, but being afraid of Wade's antagonistic fatherinlaw, fatherinlaw chooses to say nothing. As Wade drives, Wade reveals Wade has brought a gun in Wade's jacket and practices what Wade will say to the kidnapper. Jerry leaves soon after Wade to see what will happen. On the roof of the parking garage, Carl sits waiting in Carl's idling Ciera as Wade pulls up. Carl demands to know where Jerry is, and Wade demands to see Jean. Carl demands that Wade give Wade the briefcase with the money in roof, but Wade refuses unless Wade sees Wade's daughter Jean. Surprised and angry by Wade's demands, Carl shoots Wade in the stomach without hesitating and goes to snatch the briefcase from Wade's hands. Wade shoots Carl in the face as Wade leans over. Carl reels back and grabs Carl's wounded right jaw after being gazed by the bullet. Carl quickly lethally shoots Wade multiple times. Clutching Carl's bleeding jaw while screaming in agonizing pain, Carl grabs the briefcase, gets into Carl's car, and drives away. As Carl speeds through the garage, Carl passes Jerry. Both of them take a quick notice of each other, but Carl continues driving on. Both drives up to the garage attendant and, holding Both's bloody jaw, tells the man to open the gate. At the same time, Jerry continues up to the roof and finds Wade lying there, shot dead. Jerry casually pops open Wade's car trunk. As Jerry leaves the garage with Wade in Wade's trunk, Wade sees that Carl has killed the attendant with a bullet to the head and smashed through the exit gate, breaking bullet off. A distraught Jerry goes home, and Scotty tells Denman Stan Grossman called for Denman. Jerry tells Scotty everything went fine, and Wade goes to bed without calling Stan back. In Brainerd the next morning, Gerry Olson, one of Marge's deputies, stops by the house of a chatty older man, named Mr. Mohra, who is shoveling snow off Olson's driveway. The man has apparently reported an incident at man's bar, and man tells Olson that a few days ago a little funnylooking man asked man where man could get some action in the area. When man refused, Carl had threatened the man and stupidly bragged about killing someone. man also says that Carl mentioned that Carl was staying out near a lake. The bar had been near Moose Lake, man tells the officer, so man believes that that is the place Carl was talking about. Officer Olson politely thanks the neighbor for the tip and leaves. Meanwhile, Carl is stopped on the side of a snowy road, a bloody rag pressed against Carl's wounded jaw. Carl looks inside the briefcase and is astounded at how much is inside Carl had expected 80,000 and instead got the million that Jerry had been planning to keep mostly for himself. After thinking for a minute, Carl takes out the 80,000 that Gaear apparently would still be expecting and throws minute in the backseat. Carl closes the case, fixes Carl's rag, and takes case out into the snow beside a fence. Carl looks right and left, seeing only fence and snow, and Carl buries the money. Carl sticks an ice scraper into the snow on top as the only marker besides the bloodied snow Carl'd dug aside, and Carl drives away. In Minneapolis, Marge sits next to Marge packed luggage in Marge hotel room talking on the phone to a female friend. Marge tells the friend that Marge saw Mike and that Park was upset from Park's wife's death. The woman tells Marge that Mike never married that woman, that Park had been bothering woman for some time and that woman is still alive. woman tells Marge that Mike has been having lifelong psychiatric problems and Park has been living in an insane asylum for a few years now and that Park is now living with Park's parents. Marge then checks out of the hotel, buys a breakfast sandwich from a Hardees restaurant, and silently ponders Marge next move and Marge contends driving back to Brainerd having gotten nowhere with Marge investigation. But then a thought pops into a head as a remembers something. Marge then goes to visit Jerry at the car dealership, obviously having picked up something from Jerry's nervous and elusive behavior on Marge first visit the day before. Jerry sits in Jerry's office writing out a new sales form for GMAC, making sure the serial numbers for the nonexistent vehicles are again smudged and illegible. Jerry is irritated by Marge visit. Jerry tries to get Marge out, but polite and insistent as usual, Marge tells Jerry that the tan Ciera Marge's investigating had dealer plates and that someone who works at the dealership got a phone call from the perpetrators, which is too much of a coincidence. Marge asks if Jerry's done a lot count recently, and rather than answer, Jerry yells at Marge by saying that the car is not from that lot. In a serious tone, Marge tells Jerry not to get snippy with Marge. Jerry tells Marge Wade is cooperating, but tone's obvious to us that Wade is now clearly insane at realizing the depth of the mess Wade has created and how miserably all Wade's assorted schemes have failed. Wade jumps up, puts on Wade's hat and coat, and tells Marge Wade will go inventory the lot right now. Marge waits at the desk, looking at Wade's picture of Jean and at the GMAC loan form on Wade's desk. From the window Marge sees Wade driving out of the lot. Marge hurriedly calls the Minneapolis police from Jerry's desk phone. At the cabin, Gaear sits in Gaear's long johns eating a TV dinner as Gaear watches a soap opera on the fuzzy television. Carl comes in with Carl's bloodied face and the 80,000 Carl took from the briefcase before Carl buried briefcase. Gaear looks unfazed by Carl's extensive wound. Carl asks what happened to Jean, who is lying on the kitchen floor motionless, still tied to the chair there is blood on the stove behind Jean. Gaear tells Carl Jean started screaming and wouldn't stop. Carl shows Carl the money, takes Carl's 40,000, and tells Carl Carl's keeping the Ciera and that Gaear can have Gaear's old truck and they must part ways. Gaear tells Gaear they will split the car. How do you split a fuckin'car, ya dummy With a fuckin'chainsaw Carl spits at Carl, Carl's words slurred from Carl's jaw wound. Gaear tells Gaear one will pay the other for half, so Carl must pay half for the value of the car from Carl's share money so Carl can take the car for himself. Carl refuses and screams that Carl got shot in the face and makes an implied threat that Carl will keep the Ciera as extra compensation. Carl storms out of the front door to the car to drive away. Seconds later, Gaear comes running out behind Carl wielding an ax. As Carl turns around, Gaear raises the ax and the scene cuts to black as the blade lands in Carl's neck. A little later, Marge is driving along an isolated road talking on the CB radio to Lou. They are discussing Jean's kidnapping that a Minneapolis police detective learned from Stan and Jean's son Scotty, and the fact that Jean father, Wade, is missing. Jean tells Lou Jean is driving around Moose Lake, following the tip from the loudmouth bar owner Mr. Mohra. They conversation reveals that the news has gotten word out on the wire for the public to keep an eye out for Jerry and Wade. Jean suddenly spots the tan Ciera parked in front of the cabin. Lou tells Jean Lou will send Jean backup. When Jean gets out, Jean hears the loud roar of the motor of a power tool in the distance. Jean makes Jean way around the house towards the noise behind the cabin, and sees Gaear pushing Carl's dismembered foot down into a woodchipper, having chopped up Gaear's dead body and disposing of foot. There is a huge puddle of blood and the rest of Carl's body in the snow. Gaear works at getting the rest of Carl into the chipper, using a small log to push log down. Marge pulls Marge gun and yells at Gaear to put Gaear's hands up, but Gaear doesn't hear over the machine. Marge yells again, and Gaear turns around to see Marge. Marge points to the police crest on Marge hat, aiming Marge gun at Gaear. Gaear turns quickly, hurls the log at Marge, and takes off across the frozen lake behind the cabin. The log glances Marge leg, and Marge fires after Gaear twice as Gaear flees. One shot hits Gaear in the back of Gaear's thigh. Gaear falls in the snow, and Marge arrests Gaear. Marge drives away with Gaear handcuffed in the backseat. So that was Mrs. Lundegaard in there Marge asks, looking at Gaear in the rear view mirror. Gaear looks expressionlessly out the window. I guess that was your accomplice in the woodchipper. And those three people in Brainerd. accomplice does not react woodchipper is talking mostly to herself. woodchipper tells accomplice there is more to life than a little bit of money. Don't you know that woodchipper asks. woodchipper pulls over to the side of the road as a fleet of cruisers and an ambulance drive toward cruisers on cruisers way to the cabin. And here you are. And day's a beautiful day. Two days later, at a motel outside of Bismarck, North Dakota, two state policemen bang on a room door asking for a Mr. Anderson. The voice inside, Jerry's, tells policemen Wade will be there in a sec. The owner unlocks the door, and Jerry is seen trying to escape out the bathroom window, wearing only a Tshirt and boxers. owner screams and flails wildly and insanely as the police arrest owner. That night at the Gundersons', Marge climbs into bed next to Norm. Norm tells Marge the mallard Norm painted for a stamp contest has been chosen to be on the three cent stamp, but another man Norm knows got the twentynine cent. Marge tells Norm Marge's proud of Norm and that people use the three cent stamp all the time. Norm rests Norm's hand on Marge pregnant belly and says, Two more months. Marge smiles and rests Marge hand on Norm's, and repeats, Two more months.