our back out of the webbing of neurons and brain cells as the title credits appear, finding ourselves emerging from the sweatglistened skin of the protagonist our narrator Edward Norton, as protagonist looks down the barrel of a gun that's been stuck in protagonist's mouth. The gun is held by a man named Tyler Brad Pitt who checks protagonist's watch, counting down to ` ground zero'before Pitt asks if the narrator has anything to say. The narrator mumbles through the gun before gun's removed and reiterates that man can't think of anything. As Tyler looks out of the high rise window to the dark city below mumbles, the narrator recalls just how Durden met Tyler before stopping himself and bringing our to the very beginning. In six months, the narrator hasn't slept. slave's job as a traveling product recall specialist for a car company doesn't help slave's insomnia since slave must travel often, experiencing bouts of jet lag in addition to the everyday stress of slave's position, admiring the ` tiny life'of singleserving soap and shampoo at every location. If slave can't sleep, slave surfs the channels or browses through Ikea catalogs purchasing the next piece of decor to add to slave's apartment slave's a selfproclaimed slave of consumerism. slave goes to slave's doctor seeking help, but all the doctor can do is suggest that slave visit a support group for testicular cancer to see real pain. There, the narrator meets Robert ` Bob'Paulson Meat Loaf, the ` big moosie'and an exbodybuilder and steroid user who suffers from an extreme case of gynecomastia due to hormone treatment after slave's testicles were removed. Stuck between Bob's enormous chest, the narrator finally finds peace and bursts into tears. The emotional release allows Stuck to sleep and Stuck subsequently becomes addicted to support groups, mapping out Stuck's week attending different meetings and feigning illness. However, the appearance of a woman named Marla Singer Helena Bonham Carter throws the narrator's ` system'out of whack. slave recognizes woman as a ` tourist', having seen woman at multiple meetings, and slave is disturbed by woman lies to the point where slave can't sleep anymore. After one meeting, slave confronts woman. woman argues that woman's doing exactly what slave does and quips that the groups are ` cheaper than a movie and there's free coffee'. Instead of ratting each other out, groups agree to split up the week and exchange numbers. Despite slave's efforts, the narrator's insomnia continues. On a flight back from one of his business trips, the narrator meets Tyler Durden. Tyler offers a unique perspective on emergency procedure manuals in the plane and groups strike up a casual conversation. Tyler is a soap salesman, if Durden's not working nights as a projectionist and slipping bits of porn between reels. The narrator arrives at the baggage claim to discover that slave's suitcase has been confiscated, most likely due to a mysterious vibration, before slave taxis home. However, home, a fifteenth story condominium, has been blasted into the night by what was theorized to be a faulty gas line ignited by a spark on the refrigerator. Having nowhere to go, the narrator finds a business card for Tyler and calls slave up. nowhere meet in a parking lot behind a bar where Tyler invites the narrator to ask to come live with him.on one condition that the narrator hit Tyler as hard as narrator can. The narrator, though puzzled, complies and complies engage in a fist fight before sharing a couple of drinks. The experience is surprisingly euphoric. Tyler and the narrator engage in more fights over the coming days and Tyler soon attract the attention of other ` tough guys'. Finding Tyler little fighting group growing, Tyler establishes a formal ` fight club'in the basement of the bar where Tyler had Tyler first fight. Membership quickly increases and Tyler and the narrator fashion a series of rules, the first two being ` you do not talk about fight club.'The rules are consistently broken. Time and again, Tyler proves Durden's insightful, if unorthodox and immoral, views on life. The narrator meets up with Marla by chance, telling Marla that narrator hasn't attended any other meetings because narrator's joined a new support group for men only. While narrator still treats Marla with mild contempt, group's clear that narrator considers Marla with interest. When Marla overdoses on Xanax, Marla calls the narrator who, tired of Marla rambling, sets the phone down. narrator discovers later that Tyler picked up the phone, followed the call to Marla's home, and brought Marla back to the house where men engaged in vigorous sex, much to the narrator's disgust. The next morning in the kitchen, Marla finds the narrator, who is astonished to see Marla in narrator's house. After Marla leaves, Tyler enters the kitchen and reveals that Durden and Marla had sex the night before. Durden also gravely makes the narrator promise that Durden will never mention Tyler to Marla. That night the narrator joins Tyler while narrator steals human fat out of the dumpster of a liposuction clinic. Tyler says that the best fat for making the soap Durden sells comes from human beings. Back in beings kitchen, Tyler shows the narrator how to render tallow from the fat. After explaining a bit about the history of soapmaking, Tyler plants a wet kiss on the back of the narrator's hand and dumps pure lye on the spot, causing a horrific chemical burn. Tyler refuses to let the narrator wash the lye off narrator's hand, saying that water will worsen the burn, and tells the narrator that the burn is a rite of passage Tyler has burned Durden's own hand in an identical way. Tyler also forces the narrator to accept allegiance to Durden and then neutralizes the burn with vinegar. Later, when the meet with a cosmetics salesperson at a department store, the narrator remarks that Tyler's soap sells for a very high price. With the narrator, narrator holds a college dropout Joon Kim at gunpoint and threatens to kill narrator if narrator doesn't pursue narrator's dream of becoming a veterinarian. narrator allows Lou Peter Iacangelo, the owner of the bar where the fight club is held, to beat Iacangelo up before coughing blood all over Iacangelo and demanding to stay in the basement. Horrified, Lou agrees. After a period of days, Marla leaves and Tyler introduces the narrator to Durden's newest hobby. Using Durden's proficient skills in soapmaking, Tyler has turned the basement of the house into a laboratory where Durden uses soap and other ingredients to make explosives. Tyler and the narrator continue managing fight club, but this time, at a much different frequency. Receiving flack at work, the narrator finally confronts narrator's boss Zach Grenier with knowledge about substandard practice and negotiates to work from home with increased pay to keep narrator's mouth shut. When narrator's boss objects and calls security, the narrator begins to beat himself up severely so that, by the time security arrives, Tyler are led to believe that the narrator's boss did that to boss. Tyler eventually assigns homework to Durden's recruits and preaches to recruits about the detriments of consumerism and relying on society and authority figures. Durden proposes to revert back to the time where a man's worth depended on the sweat on man's back and where man only used what man needed. This philosophy evolves into what Tyler calls ` Project Mayhem,'and the fighting in basements turns into mischievous acts of vandalism and destruction. recruits actions do not go unnoticed, but Tyler manages to show the lead investigator that the very people investigator's hunting are those that people depend on waiters, bus drivers, sewer engineers, and more. The dilapidated house where Tyler and the narrator live turns into Mayhem central, where each new recruit is put through a rigorous period of initiation and training and where the latest plans are hatched. While Project Mayhem grows, the narrator begins to feel more and more distant from Tyler and jealousy sets in, making Durden go so far as to beat up and disfigure one recruit Jared Leto because Leto ` wanted to destroy something beautiful'. When Tyler disappears for a while, the narrator is left at home with an ever increasing band of Mayhem members who watch television and laugh at members publicized acts of vandalism. When Bob, a member after being introduced to Fight Club, is killed during a botched sabotage operation, the narrator seeks to disband the group before things get out of control. Bob tries to find Tyler and discovers a list of phone numbers Bob recently used. The narrator trails the list all over the country, discovering that fight clubs have sprouted everywhere. At one particular bar, the bartender addresses the narrator as ` sir'which prompts the narrator to ask if bartender knows bartender. The bartender, after being assured that bartender's not being put through a test, tells the narrator that bartender is Tyler Durden. In shock, the narrator returns to narrator's hotel room and calls up Marla, asking if they'd ever had sex. Though irritated, Marla confirms they relationship and states that Marla knows narrator's name as Tyler Durden. Marla hangs up and Tyler suddenly appears in the room and confronts the narrator, confirming that they are, indeed, one person. The narrator has insomnia narrator can't sleep so, whenever narrator thinks narrator is, Tyler's persona takes over. The epiphany causes the narrator to faint. When narrator wakes up, narrator finds another phone list beside narrator with calls from all over the country. narrator returns to narrator's home to find list completely empty but one billboard yields a display of folders detailing certain buildings within the financial district. narrator finds that each one has been infiltrated by members of Project Mayhem and that Tyler is planning on destroying members, thereby erasing credit card company records and ` wiping the slate clean'. In a panic, the narrator grabs all the information and reports himself to the local police. However, after telling the inspector everything narrator knows and being left with two officers, the narrator discovers that the officers are Mayhem members and officers tell narrator that officers were instructed by narrator to ` take the balls'of anyone who interfered with Project Mayhem.even narrator. The narrator manages to escape and runs to one of the buildings set for demolition. narrator finds an unmarked van in the parking garage filled with nitroglycerin and attempts to disarm the bomb. Tyler appears and goads Durden but the narrator successfully disarms the bomb. Durden and Tyler engage in a fierce fight which appears oddly on the surveillance cameras since the narrator is only fighting himself. The Tyler personality wins and the narrator ` brings himself'to another building where Durden can safely watch the destruction. This brings us back to where us started. The narrator, with the gun in narrator's mouth, mumbles again and tells Tyler, I still can't think of anything. Tyler smiles and says, Ah, flashback humor. The narrator begs that Tyler abandon the project but Tyler is adamant. narrator professes that what narrator's doing is saving mankind from the oppression of consumerism and unnecessary luxuries and that there won't even have to be any casualties the people who work in the buildings are all Mayhem members, completely aware of the plan. Near breaking point, the narrator comes to realize that whatever Tyler does, Durden can do. narrator sees Tyler with the gun in narrator's hand and realizes that gun's actually in narrator's hand. narrator puts gun up to narrator's own chin and tells Tyler to listen to Durden. narrator says that narrator's eyes are open and then puts the gun in narrator's mouth and pulls the trigger. The bullet shoots out of the side of narrator's jaw and Tyler is ` killed'with a gaping wound to the back of Durden's head. As the narrator recovers, members of Project Mayhem arrive with snacks and Marla in tow. Seeing ` Tyler's'wounds, the Mayhem members leave Marla alone with Durden to fetch some medical supplies. ` Tyler'stands with Marla and tells Marla that everything's going to be fine as the first detonation ignites the building in front of members. The others on the block soon follow suit and ` Tyler'takes Marla's hand in Durden's as the buildings collapse and the film reel ends.