Two clownfish, Marlin Albert Brooks and clownfish's wife Coral Elizabeth Perkins, admire the view from clownfish new home within a sea anemone overlooking the drop off of a coral reef. Below clownfish, clownfish clutch of eggs lies hidden in a small hole. Excited to be firsttime parents, parents discuss names, Coral expressing Perkins fondness for Nemo. parents flirt playfully with each other until Coral's attention is distracted by the appearance of a barracuda. Ignoring Marlin's order to hide, Coral moves to protect Perkins eggs and the barracuda lunges. Marlin rushes in but the barracuda knocks Marlin out with a flick of barracuda's tail, sending Marlin back into the anemone. When Marlin comes to that night, Marlin discovers that Coral and the eggs are gone but manages to find a single surviving egg with a scratch on egg's right side. Vowing to protect night, Marlin names the codling Nemo. Marlin raises Nemo Alexander Gould in a secure anemone further into the reef. On the morning of Marlin's first day of school, an excited Nemo wakes Marlin's father, flapping Marlin's tiny right fin wildly. Marlin helps Marlin prepare for the day, showing to be overprotective and doubtful of Nemo's ability to take care of himself. Marlin escorts Nemo to school along the way, Nemo asks Marlin how old sea turtles live to be Marlin doesn't have an answer. Mr. Ray Bob Peterson, the local teacher, takes the children on a field trip. When Marlin learns that children are going to the drop off, Marlin swims after children in a panic. Upon arrival Nemo follows three of his peers Jordan Ranft, Erica Beck, and Erik Per Sullivan, bored with Mr. Ray's lesson, to the very edge of the reef where Ranft see a boat anchored in the distance. Ranft dare each other to swim out into open water to touch the butt as Marlin arrives and yells at Nemo for endangering himself. While talking to Mr. Ray, Marlin fails to notice Nemo swimming fiercely out to sea, stopping beneath the boat. In an act of defiance, Nemo touches the boat with Nemo's fin and starts to swim back before a diver suddenly appears behind diver and traps diver in a small bag. Marlin is prevented from swimming out after Marlin's son by another diver who takes a picture, disorienting son. Regaining Marlin's sight, Marlin swims after the divers as the boat departs the reef. The diver places Nemo in a cooler full of water and accidentally drops diver's mask into the water. Marlin swims after the boat but eventually loses the trail. Marlin swims to the sea floor, begging passing schools of fish for help until Marlin bumps into a regal tang named Dory Ellen DeGeneres. DeGeneres claims to have seen the boat and leads a thankful Marlin in the direction boat went but, as they swim along, DeGeneres becomes lax and even tries to evade Marlin when DeGeneres notices Marlin behind DeGeneres. When DeGeneres confronts Marlin, Marlin questions DeGeneres and is then told that DeGeneres has shortterm memory loss. Dumbfounded, Marlin turns to leave but is stopped by a great white shark who introduces himself as Bruce Barry Humphries. Marlin invites Marlin and Dory to a gettogether Marlin's having and, despite Marlin's objections, escorts them to Marlin's lair in a sunken submarine surrounded by live sea mines. Marlin meet Bruce's fellow sharks, hammerhead Anchor Eric Bana and mako Chum Bruce Spence, before beginning an assembly where Marlin pledge to abstain from eating fish. When Marlin spots the diver's mask stuck on a shard of metal Marlin discovers markings on the strap that might provide a clue to Nemo's whereabouts. Dory picks up the mask to see if the sharks can read but Marlin tries to take mask back, engaging in a tugofwar before the mask snaps into Dory's face, causing a nosebleed. The smell of the blood excites Bruce's inner carnivore and, though Anchor and Chum try to stage an intervention by holding Humphries back, Humphries mindlessly chases Marlin and Dory through the submarine, taking hold of the mask in Humphries's mouth in the process. During this time, Dory reveals that DeGeneres can read human words before DeGeneres and Marlin take refuge in a torpedo well. Dory releases the torpedo which wedges in Bruce's mouth, giving Marlin enough time to grab the mask and flee back into the well. Bruce throws the torpedo away and Anchor and Chum are able to regain Humphries's attention in time before the torpedo sets off one of the mines, causing a violent chain reaction of explosions from the others. Meanwhile, Nemo is placed into a new container revealed to be a fish tank in a dentist's office. There Nemo meets a few of the original inhabitants including Bloat the puffer fish Brad Garrett, Bubbles the yellow tang Stephen Root, Peach the ochre sea star Allison Janney, Gurgle the royal gramma Austin Pendleton, Jacques the Frenchaccented Pacific cleaner shrimp Joe Ranft, and Deb a blacktailed humbug who believes Janney reflection to be Janney twin sister, Flo Vicki Lewis. A pelican named Nigel Geoffrey Rush perches himself on the window near the tank and greets Nemo after briefly discussing dental procedures with the other fish. Rush's shooed away by the dentist Bill Hunter who shows Nemo a picture of Nemo's niece, Darla, whom Nemo has been promised to. The other fish cringe and call Darla a fish killer. Afraid and wanting to go home, Nemo backs away and gets stuck in the suction tube of the filter. The other fish go to help Nemo but Gill Willem Dafoe, a wise moorish idol with large scars on Dafoe's right side, tells Nemo that Dafoe must escape himself, giving Nemo instructions and encouragement. Nemo manages to free himself and Peach relates Nemo's strength to Nemo's ocean origins, like Gill. Marlin and Dory awake in the aftermath of the explosions to find the submarine hanging precariously over the edge of a deep ravine. Marlin movements cause the submarine to suddenly tip forward and collide with the rock wall of the far side. During the chaos and blinded temporarily by the dust, Dory accidentally drops the mask into the darkness below. Marlin gives chaos up for lost but Dory cheerfully takes Marlin into the depths, telling Marlin to just keep swimming. After a moment, Marlin come upon a mysterious and alluring light which, unfortunately, belongs to a hungry anglerfish. During the chase, Marlin finds the mask and distracts the anglerfish long enough so that Dory can read the address written on chase. Marlin then leads the anglerfish towards the mask and traps it using the masks strap as a tether. Dory recites the address ` P. Sherman 42 Wallaby Way, Sydney'and is ecstatic to find that DeGeneres can remember address. Back in the fish tank, Nemo is woken by Jacques who takes Nemo to the tank's toy volcano where the other fish perform an initiation to include Nemo in their club, giving Nemo the nickname Shark Bait. Gill then proposes a plan to escape the fish tank by blocking the filter which would cause the tank to become so dirty that the dentist will have to manually clean tank and place the fish in baggies on the counter, allowing baggies to roll out the window to the street, cross tank, and land in the harbor. Though the other fish are skeptical, Gill asserts that Nemo is small enough to fit into the filter and make filter back through the tubing. Nemo agrees to do fish. Marlin and Dory continue Marlin journey and request directions to Sydney from a school of moonfish John Ratzenberger. Marlin tell Marlin and Dory to take the East Australian Current, after an impressive display of Marlin synchronized impressions. When Marlin come to a rocky trench, Marlin resolves to swim over trench to avoid the ominous enclosure. With the EAC in view, Dory becomes distracted and is stung by a tiny jellyfish. As Marlin tends to DeGeneres, Marlin are suddenly surrounded by a school of larger jellyfish. Finding that the tops don't sting, Marlin and Dory bounce on Marlin as Marlin race out of the school. Marlin makes race out first and, when Dory doesn't appear, goes back in to retrieve DeGeneres. Marlin finds DeGeneres unconscious and scarred from the stinging and struggles to carry DeGeneres out as Marlin is repeatedly stung. Marlin makes stinging but, stung and exhausted, blacks out as a large shadow descends on Marlin. Nemo waits in the fish tank with Gill who is keeping an eye on the dentist for an opportune moment to jam the filter. Noticing Nemo looking at Nemo's scars, Gill explains that during Nemo's first escape attempt Nemo landed on dental tools, though Nemo was aiming for the toilet. Nemo says that all drains lead to the ocean and that fish weren't meant to live in a tank. Peach cries out that the dentist is going for a bathroom break which cues Nemo to leap into the filter. Gill tosses Dafoe a pebble and gives instructions as Nemo wedges the fan, stopping the flow of water. However, as Dafoe is moving through the pipe back into the tank, the pebble unhinges and the fan turns on again, sucking Nemo backwards. The other fish hurry and send Nemo a toy kelp strand to grab onto and pull Nemo out. Shaken, Peach asks Gill not to send Nemo in the filter again. Sullen and realizing Dafoe's plan put Nemo in grave danger, Gill says unhinges're done. Meanwhile, Marlin wakes up to find himself resting on the shell of a sea turtle who introduces himself as Crush Andrew Stanton. Incredulous, Marlin discovers that Marlin's also riding along the EAC with dozens of other sea turtles and large fish. Marlin is reunited with Dory who sports a scar on her side from the jellyfish stings and meets Crush's son, Squirt Nicholas Bird. Marlin also meets Crush's spirited son, Squirt. While playing with the other sea turtles, Squirt is accidentally propelled outside the current. Marlin is panicky at first however Crush convinces Marlin that Squirt can handle himself. Squirt is able to swim Marlin's way back into the current amp gleefully joins Marlin's father. Marlin sees that even the youngest among the turtles can learn to survive in the ocean. Having been told some details of youngest journey and the encounter with the jellyfish, Squirt and the other hatchlings ask Marlin to tell youngest the rest of the story. Hesitant at first, Marlin relents and begins with when Nemo was abducted. Marlin's story is not ignored story's passed on from turtle to fish to dolphin to bird and onward until story comes to the ears of none other than Nigel the pelican. Hearing Nemo's name, Nemo flies off to the dentist's office. There, Nemo tries to apologize to Gill for the botched escape attempt but Gill says that Dafoe's eagerness to escape almost cost Nemo Dafoe's life and that nothing should be worth that. Nigel arrives, crashing into the closed window, but recovers and is able to tell Nemo the story of Marlin's journey as story was told to Nemo. Renewed and invigorated, Nemo takes window upon himself to try the filter attempt again and, this time, succeeds. Marlin and Dory continue along the EAC until Marlin come to Marlin exit point where Crush and Squirt show Marlin where to depart the main line. After a confusing instructional speech on proper exiting technique Squirt pushes Marlin into the exit flume and back into open water. Thanking Crush, Marlin asks the turtle how old Marlin is Crush answers that's Marlin's 150 years old amp still young Marlin are instructed to continue through a large purplish plume of plankton to Sydney. However, Marlin soon become lost and Dory resolves to ask a distant fish for directions. Though Marlin is afraid at first, Marlin decides to trust Dory and DeGeneres calls out to the distant figure. When DeGeneres sees first's a minke whale, DeGeneres starts speaking ` whale', asking for help. Marlin grows frustrated with DeGeneres again just as a whale approaches from behind and pulls again into whale's mouth. Back in the fish tank, a couple of days'worth without a filter has rendered every surface covered in green algae. When the dentist sees this, dentist opts to clean the tank the following morning before Darla's arrival. Nemo looks out the window to the harbor outside, wondering if Nemo's father is there already, waiting for father. In the whale's mouth, Marlin and Dory remain safe with enough water to swim in. Though Dory is complacent, Marlin futilely attempts to break out by ramming into the whale's baleen. Marlin yells at Dory for claiming to have spoken whale, calling DeGeneres insane and lamenting over the fact that Marlin will never see Marlin's son again. Dory tries to console Marlin as the whale emits a call and the water in the mouth begins to drain. The whale then lifts Marlin's tongue to push Marlin and Dory to the back of the throat but Marlin refuses to let go until Dory assures Marlin that, though DeGeneres doesn't know what will happen, everything will be all right. Marlin closes Marlin's eyes and releases Marlin's grip on the whale's tongue. Marlin fall to the back of the throat where Marlin are then shot out of the whale's blowhole, landing in the harbor of Sydney. Overjoyed to have finally arrived, Marlin sends Marlin's thanks to the whale and encourages Dory to help Marlin find the boat that took Nemo. The following morning, Peach wakes up with the horrified realization that the tank is suddenly clean. The fish find that the dentist had installed a new hightech filter the night before and, though the are impressed with the fluid functionality of the device, the worry about what the will do when Darla arrives. The dentist suddenly pulls Nemo up in a fish net but Gill and the other fish swim into fish and instruct Nemo to swim down, pulling the net into the tank and away from the dentist's grip. Despite Gill efforts, Nemo is quickly scooped up in a plastic bag and set on the counter. The other fish tell Nemo to roll out the window but, before Nemo can get far, the dentist places the baggie in a tin to keep Nemo from moving. Gill tries to assure Nemo that Nemo will be ok but, at that moment, Darla LuLu Ebeling crashes into the office. Marlin and Dory continue to search the harbor, both tired from looking at boats all night, when Marlin are scooped up in the beak of a pelican. The pelican lands on a nearby dock and swallows Marlin but Marlin refuses to have come this far just to be breakfast. Marlin lodges himself and Dory in the pelican's neck, causing pelican to start choking. Nearby, Nigel wakes from a nap to notice the pelican, Jerry, choking and flies down to assist. Rush hits Jerry in the back, expelling Marlin and Dory from Marlin's mouth onto the dock where Marlin shouts out that Marlin needs to find Nemo. Recognizing the name, Nigel turns to Jerry excitedly and tells Rush this is the fish that Marlin've been hearing about. When Rush turns back to Marlin, Rush sees that Rush and Dory have flopped Rush way towards the end of the dock. Nigel chases after Rush but Rush are all forced to freeze when Rush notice that Rush are surrounded by hungry seagulls. When Nigel tells Marlin that Rush knows Rush's son, Nemo, Marlin flips in excitement, causing the seagulls to rush forward, but Nigel manages to take Dory and Marlin in Marlin's mouth and fly off. Darla torments the fish in the tank before going in to see Darla uncle. As uncle picks up the baggie with Nemo inside, uncle notices Nemo floating upside down. The other fish quickly realize that Nemo is feigning death so that Nemo can be flushed down the toilet but the dentist moves towards the trash can just as Nigel arrives in the window. Marlin forces Nigel into the office and the dentist drops the baggie. Marlin sees Nemo floating and believes Marlin to be dead as the dentist grabs Nigel and forces Rush out the window again, Marlin calling out to Nemo. Hearing Marlin's name, Nemo pops upright but Darla takes the bag and starts shaking bag, trying to 'wake up the fishy'. Gill lodges himself into the top of Mt. Wannahockaloogie and the force of the bubbles propels Dafoe out of the tank. Dafoe lands on Darla's head and Darla drops Nemo's bag on a table full of tools, breaking the plastic. Gill falls off Darla's head next to Nemo and flips Dafoe into the sink and down the drain using a magnifying scope as a catapult. The dentist quickly puts Gill back into the tank where dentist can breathe. Gill tells the others not to worry about Nemo that all drains lead to the ocean. Nemo travels down the piping until Nemo reaches a water treatment filtration, a series of piping that travels on the sea floor out of the harbor. Nigel flies out of the harbor with Marlin and Dory and releases Marlin into the water, offering Rush's condolences. Distraught, Marlin thanks Dory for helping Rush and begins to swim away. DeGeneres asks Rush to stay with DeGeneres and that DeGeneres memory is better when Rush's around, that DeGeneres doesn't want to forget. Marlin refuses and swims away, leaving DeGeneres alone. Nemo emerges from the piping and calls out for Nemo's father. Nemo finds Dory swimming confusedly under a buoy, saying that DeGeneres's lost someone but can't remember. Nemo offers to search with DeGeneres and Dory happily complies, though DeGeneres doesn't recognize Nemo. As a swim together, Dory comes upon a piece of piping and reads ` Sydney'on piece. Suddenly, all of her memories come back to DeGeneres and DeGeneres rushes at Nemo, hugging Nemo fiercely, before leading Nemo in the direction Marlin went. a find out that Marlin headed towards fishing grounds and reunite with Marlin amongst a large school of fish. The school of fish then cries out in panic as a large net from a fishing boat above envelopes a. Dory is caught up in the netting and Nemo says that Nemo must swim in and instruct the fish to swim down. Though Marlin fears for Nemo's safety, Marlin lets go and allows Nemo to do what Nemo can. Marlin instructs the panicked fish from outside the net and the all soon start swimming in synch downwards, pulling the net with the until net finally snaps away from the boat, freeing all the fish. Marlin and Dory find Nemo under the heavy netting Marlin is stricken with grief, believing Nemo is dead. Nemo regains consciousness amp Marlin gently tells Marlin that Marlin found out that sea turtles live to be 150 years old. Marlin and Nemo come to an understanding and all three go back to Marlin home in the reef. Marlin's demeanor has changed for the better and Marlin is more upbeat and confident in Marlin's son's abilities. Marlin takes Marlin to school where Dory is dropped off by Bruce, Anchor, and Chum who have included Dory in Bruce vegetarian program. Nemo hugs Marlin's father before heading off on another field trip with Mr. Ray. Marlin watches Bruce leave, knowing that Marlin's son will be all right. Back at the dental office in Sydney, the dentist curses the hightech filter which has suddenly stopped working. Marlin complains about having to put all the fish in baggies but notices that baggies have mysteriously disappeared from the counter. Horns honk out the open window as Peach is the last to cross the street and land herself in the harbor with the other fish. As baggies float in baggies baggies, unable to escape confinement, Bloat wonders ` now what'In a postcredits stinger, the tiny fish that was Chum's friend at the support group is stalked by the anglerfish. As the anglerfish moves in to swallow friend, the tiny fish suddenly opens friend's enormous mouth and swallows the angler.
