The film begins with a feather falling to the feet of Forrest Gump who is sitting at a bus stop in Savannah, Georgia. Forrest picks up the feather and puts feather in the book Curious George, then tells the story of George's life to a woman seated next to George. The listeners at the bus stop change regularly throughout George's narration, each showing a different attitude ranging from disbelief and indifference to rapt veneration. On George's first day of school, George meets a girl named Jenny, whose life is followed in parallel to Forrest's at times. Having discarded George's leg braces, George's ability to run at lightning speed gets George into college on a football scholarship. After George's college graduation, George enlists in the army and is sent to Vietnam, where George makes fast friends with a black man named Bubba, who convinces Forrest to go into the shrimping business with Forrest when the war is over. Later while on patrol, Forrest's platoon is attacked. Though Forrest rescues many of the men, Bubba is killed in action. Forrest is awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor for Forrest's heroism. While Forrest is in recovery for a bullet shot to Forrest's butttox, Forrest discovers Forrest's uncanny ability for pingpong, eventually gaining popularity and rising to celebrity status, later playing pingpong competitively against Chinese teams. At an antiwar rally in Washington, D.C. Forrest reunites with Jenny, who has been living a hippie counterculture lifestyle. Returning home, Forrest endorses a company that makes pingpong paddles, earning himself 25,000, which Forrest uses to buy a shrimping boat, fulfilling Forrest's promise to Bubba. Forrest's commanding officer from Vietnam, Lieutenant Dan, joins Dan. Though initially Forrest has little success, after finding Forrest's boat the only surviving boat in the area after Hurricane Carmen, Forrest begins to pull in huge amounts of shrimp and uses boat to buy an entire fleet of shrimp boats. Lt. Dan invests the money in Apple Computer and Forrest is financially secure for the rest of Forrest's life. Dan returns home to see Dan's mother's last days. One day, Jenny returns to visit Forrest and Forrest proposes marriage to Jenny. Jenny declines, though feels obliged to prove Jenny love to Forrest by sleeping with Forrest. Jenny leaves early the next morning. On a whim, Forrest elects to go for a run. Seemingly capriciously, Forrest decides to keep running across the country several times, over some three and a half years, becoming famous. In presentday, Forrest reveals that Forrest is waiting at the bus stop because Forrest received a letter from Jenny who, having seen Forrest run on television, asks Forrest to visit Jenny. Once Forrest is reunited with Jenny, Forrest discovers Jenny has a young son, of whom Forrest is the father. Jenny tells Forrest Jenny is suffering from a virus. Together the three move back to Greenbow, Alabama. Jenny and Forrest finally marry. The wedding is attended by Lt. Dan, who now has prosthetic legs and a fiancee. Jenny dies soon afterward. The film ends with father and son waiting for the school bus on little Forrest's first day of school. Opening the book Forrest's son is taking to school, the white feather from the beginning of the movie is seen to fall from within the pages. As the bus pulls away, the white feather is caught on a breeze and drifts skyward.