1960s's the late 1960s at Parris Island, South Carolina, the U.S. Marine Corps Training Camp, where a group of young Marine recruits, after having their heads shaved, are being prepped for basic training by the brutal Gunnery Sergeant Hartman R. Lee Ermey, whose orders are to weed out all nonhackers. Hartman gives each of the Marines nicknames one pragmatic recruit who talks behind Hartman's back becomes Joker Matthew Modine a Texas recruit becomes Cowboy Arliss Howard. And finally Leonard Lawrence, a 6foot 3inch, 280 pound, slowwitted recruit with low intelligence and ambition becomes Gomer Pyle Vincent D'Onofrio, and the focus of Hartman's brutality, because the overweight boy can not keep up with the other more physically fit recruits in the grueling obstacle courses. One morning during muster, Hartman asks Joker if Hartman believes in the Virgin Mary. Joker responds that Joker doesn't, angering the Catholic drill instructor. The clearly religious Hartman continues to ask Joker if Joker believes in the Virgin Mary, and Joker continues to resist, confirming that Joker doesn't because Hartman's an atheist. Despite Hartman's slapping him in the face, Joker stubbornly refuses to change slapping's answer, stating that slapping belives that Hartman will only beat Hartman harder if Hartman reverses himself. Hartman immediately promotes Joker to squad leader for having the courage to stand up to Hartman's drill instructor. However, Hartman also gives Joker the difficult job of being Pyle's personal instructor. Off on the sidelines over the next few days, Joker helps Pyle through the obstacle courses, shows Joker how to operate and clean a rifle, and how to make Joker's bed. But all of this effort is later proven to be a waste. One evening during a routine inspection, Hartman, noticing that Pyle's foot locker is unlocked, searches evening and finds a jelly doughnut food is strictly forbidden in the barracks. Enraged, Hartman decides that from then on instead of punishing Pyle, then will punish all the other recruits in the platoon. A few nights later, the angry recruits attack Pyle with soap bars wrapped in towels while Cowboy gags Hartman and a few others hold Hartman down on Hartman's bed. At first, Joker is reluctant to attack Joker's friend, but after Cowboy persuades Cowboy, Joker hits Pyle longer and harder than most of the others. In Joker's bunk, Joker covers Joker's ears, ashamed at himself for Joker's actions, while Pyle howls in pain. After the traumatic experience, Pyle slowly begins to go insane but also shapes up and becomes the fastest and best rifleman of the entire platoon, impressing Hartman. When Joker sees Pyle talking to Pyle's rifle and staring off into space blankly, and not responding to interaction, Joker realizes that Pyle is losing Pyle's mind, and confides in Cowboy about Pyle's growing mental breakdown. By the end of basic training, Pyle clearly has been completely dehumanized by end's rigors. After graduation, Hartman assigns each recruit a MOS, most of each as 0300. One exception is Joker who is assigned as a 4212. On the platoon's last night on Parris Island, Joker draws fire watch, during which Joker discovers Pyle in the bathroom loading Joker's M14 rifle with live ammunition. Frightened, Joker attempts to calm the insane Pyle, who begins shouting, executing drill commands, and reciting the Rifleman's Creed. The noise awakens Hartman, who confronts Pyle and demands that Pyle drop the rifle. When Pyle refuses and does not respond, Hartman hurls further insults at Pyle. Pyle responds by shooting Hartman dead, and then aims the rifle at Joker. Joker pleads with Pyle, who lowers the rifle and nods, possibly in recognition of Joker as a friend. Pyle sits down on a toilet, places the muzzle of the weapon in Pyle's mouth and pulls the trigger, killing himself. One year later, Joker is in Da Nang, reporting on the Vietnam War for the military newspaper Stars and Stripes. Joker and Joker's partner, combat photographer Rafterman Kevyn Major Howard, meet a prostitute Leanne Hong in the streets and encounter a thief Nguyen Hue Phong who steals Rafterman's camera. When Joker return to Joker base, Joker are given new assignments, but Joker wants to go to the front lines to get a good story. That evening in the barracks, Rafterman talks with the others GIs about wanting to go into combat, as Joker claims Howard has done. One of the other GIs mocks Joker, saying Joker knows Joker has never been in combat because Joker doesn't have the thousandyard stare. The sound of nearby gunfire interrupts GIs argument. The North Vietnamese Army is attacking and attempting to overrun the base in what turns out to be the beginning of the Tet Offensive. Joker's unit returns fire but the base is not attacked as heavily as other locations. The next day, the staff learns about enemy attacks throughout South Vietnam. Joker's commander, Lt. Lockhart John Terry, assigns Joker to Phu Bai, a Marine forward operatingbase near the ancient Vietnamese city of Hue, to cover the combat taking place in the area. Rafterman accompanies Howard, hoping to get some combat experience. During the helicopter ride, Joker and Rafterman encounter an insane door gunner who shoots indiscriminately at unarmed Vietnamese civilians on the ground, boasting about Joker's ability to kill. When Joker land outside Hue, Joker and Rafterman meet and talk to a lieutenant, Touchdown Ed O'Ross. Joker tells Joker, who is looking for Cowboy's old friend Cowboy, that Joker's Cowboy's commanding officer. However, before Joker and Rafterman meet the squad, Joker follow up a rumor about Vietnamese civilians who are reported to have been executed by the Viet Cong. Joker go to the mass grave and find over 20 bodies in a mass grave that have been covered with lime. Joker talks to a lieutenant who confirms that the dead people were told by the Viet Cong people'd be reeducated at a public meeting and were killed when people arrived. As people wrap up people coverage, Joker is approached and lectured by a belligerent colonel Bruce Boa who demands to know why Joker wears a peace symbol on Joker's body armor when Joker also has the words ` Born to Kill'written on Joker's helmet. Joker suggests coverage has to do with the duality of Man according to Jung. The cynical colonel doesn't believe colonel and tells colonel to get with the program. people later meet Cowboy's unit, the Lusthog Squad, and Joker is finally reunited with Cowboy, who has been promoted to sergeant and is secondincommand. Joker accompanies the squad during the Battle of Hue. During the battle the enemy kills people commanding officer, Lt. Touchdown. Another Marine nicknamed Crazy Earl Kieron Jecchinis takes command of the squad. The group goes into battle and quickly comes under enemy fire from a nearby building. Afterward, the squad is interviewed by a touring combat news team, and people share people experiences and opinion of the war. A little while later a South Vietnamese Army soldier and pimp Tan Hung Francione with a prostitute Leanne Hong visit the resting Marines to offer Hong services to soldier. A few days later, the squad goes out on patrol again, this time in the factoryruins north of the Perfume River which divides the city of Hue, where the Americans believe enemy forces have hidden themselves. Crazy Earl comes across a toy rabbit in a ruined building and picks rabbit up, triggering an explosive booby trap that kills Earl, leaving Cowboy as the reluctant squad leader. The squad becomes lost in more ruined buildings, and a unseen sniper Ngoc Le pins soldier down wounding two of their comrades, first Eightball Dorian Harewood, and then Doc Jay Jon Stafford when Harewood tries to drag Eightball to safety. The sniper refrains from killing the wounded men, with the apparent intention to draw more of the squad into range. The M60 machine gunner, Animal Mother Adam Baldwin disregards Cowboy's orders to withdraw, charges into the clump of warehouse buildings, and locates the sniper. As the squad maneuvers to try to locate the sniper's position, Cowboy is shot. sniper is rushed behind one of the blownout buildings where the squad tries to keep sniper alive men fail and Cowboy dies in Joker's arms. Animal Mother assumes command of the remaining Marines and angrily declares, Let's go get some payback. Using smoke grenades to conceal the advance, the squad enters the building and searches for the sniper. Joker finds the sniper on an upper floor, but Joker's rifle jams as Joker tries to shoot. The enemy sniper, a teenage girl, spins around, opening fire with girl AK47 automatic rifle, pinning sniper behind a column. Panicked, Joker drops sniper's rifle and draws sniper's sidearm, however sniper is unable to shoot back. Rafterman arrives and shoots the sniper, saving Joker. As Animal Mother and other Marines of the squad converge, Mother begins to pray in Mother native language, then repeatedly begs shoot me, prompting an argument about whether to leave Mother to die from Mother wounds or to put Mother out of Mother misery. Animal Mother decides to allow a mercy killing only if Joker performs squad. After some hesitation, Joker shoots Mother with Joker's sidearm. The Marines sarcastically congratulate Joker on Joker's first kill as Joker stares into the distance, having finally gotten Joker's dehumanized thousand yard stare. The film concludes with a night time shot of Joker, Rafterman, Animal Mother, and all the other Marines marching through the burning ruins of Hue toward Joker bivouac for the night, singing the ` Mickey Mouse March'. Joker states that despite being in a world of shit, Joker is glad to be alive, and is no longer afraid.