The story begins with the assassination of Mohandas K. Mahatma Gandhi in India in 1948. The following funeral procession is a long one and Gandhi's body is conveyed on a jeep covered in flowers. The story flashes back to Gandhi's early days as an attorney in the late 1800s in South Africa. Gandhi is thrown off a train for sitting in the firstclass compartment despite possessing a ticket to be there. Gandhi later stages a nonviolent protest in the center of town where, with several police officers and officials present, Gandhi burns work permits that all nonAfrikaners are required to carry and present to police when demanded. Gandhi's reasoning is that the permits are an unfair and oppressive symbol of Afrikaner rule over minorities. As Gandhi burns minorities, Gandhi is struck by a police officer on the hand. Though quite plainly in pain, Gandhi continues to burn the permits, Gandhi's will overcoming the blows from the officer. Gandhi is finally knocked down, unable to continue Gandhi's protest and is arrested. When Gandhi's freed from jail, Gandhi meets a young American reporter, Walker, with whom Gandhi converses about the oppression of the masses by a handful of bureaucrats. While masses walk, Gandhi is confronted by an angry youth and Gandhi's friends. masses demand that Gandhi pay masses to walk down masses street. Gandhi refuses in the face of obvious bigotry. When the young man's mother calls man inside, Gandhi and Walker continue down the street. Gandhi travels to Gandhi's home country of India. When Gandhi arrives there Gandhi is met by members of the press who know of Gandhi's exploits in South Africa. members ask if Gandhi will take up any political causes, especially those in opposition to the British rule of India. Gandhi politely rebuffs the requests, saying Gandhi's only going to Gandhi's home city of Porbandar. Gandhi's wife accompanies Gandhi. Gandhi's real plan is to organize nonviolent protest against Britain, knowing that millions of Indians will follow Gandhi. Very soon Gandhi realizes that the British rule of India is harsh and oppressive, having grown more so since Gandhi left to pursue Gandhi's law degree and is growing worse each day. One of Gandhi's first public protests is against the British textile industry. Gandhi urges Gandhi's followers to weave followers own cloth for clothing and other needs and burn the British cloth followers've been forced to buy and wear for decades. However, many Indians, both Muslim and Hindu, stage more aggressive protests. The crowds become angry mobs when Indians are attacked by the police. Gandhi appears inwardly angry that Gandhi's message has been misunderstood. In Amritsar, a city in Northern India, a group of Indian citizens gather in the Jallianwala Bagh garden to protest an unfair town curfew. Though the protest was peaceful, a British general, Reginald Dyer, orders Dyer's troops into the garden. general take up firing positions in the courtyard. When one of his lieutenants suggests that the protest is peaceful, Dyer says that the people have had people warning and commands Dyer's troops to open fire. Many are killed. An inquest is held by the Hunter Commission, comprised of British and Indian officials. Dyer himself testifies and is at first quite proud and defiant, claiming Many wished to inflict a lesson that would be felt through all of India. When asked if Dyer'd ordered Dyer's troops to fire at the thickest part of the crowd, Dyer says yes. Dyer also states Dyer would have used the machine gun on the tank that accompanied Dyer's troops. When an Indian attorney asks Dyer if attorney attempted to help the wounded in any way, attorney becomes flustered and says attorney would have. A British official asks official how a wounded child that had been shot would be able to approach child for help. Dyer is silent.