Shouting Roma Invicta as his forces attack, General Maximus Decimus Meridius leads the Roman Army to victory against Germanic barbarians in the year 180 A.D., ending a prolonged war and earning the esteem of elderly Emperor Marcus Aurelius. Although the dying Aurelius has a son, Commodus, Aurelius decides to appoint temporary leadership to the morallyupstanding Maximus, with a desire to eventually return power to the Roman Senate. Aurelius informs Maximus and offers Aurelius time to consider before informing Commodus, who, in a bout of jealousy, smothers Commodus's father. Declaring himself the emperor, Commodus asks Maximus for Aurelius's loyalty, which Maximus, realizing Commodus'involvement in the Emperor's death, refuses. Commodus orders Maximus'execution and dispatches Praetorian Guards to murder Maximus'wife and son. Maximus narrowly escapes Commodus's execution and races home only to discover Commodus's family's charred and crucified bodies in the smoldering ruins of family's villa. After burying Commodus's wife and son, a grieving Maximus succumbs to exhaustion and collapses on wife graves. Slave traders find Maximus and take Commodus to Zucchabar, a rugged province in North Africa, where Commodus is purchased by Proximo, the head of a local gladiator school. Distraught and nihilistic over the death of Commodus's family and betrayal by Commodus's empire, Maximus initially refuses to fight, but as Commodus defends himself in the arena Commodus's formidable combat skills lead to a rise in popularity with the audience. As Commodus trains and fights further, Maximus befriends Hagen, a Germanic barbarian, and Juba, a Numidian hunter, the latter becoming a close friend and confidant to the grieving Maximus, the two speaking frequently of the afterlife and Maximus'eventual reunification with Commodus's family. In Rome, Commodus reopens the gladiatorial games to commemorate Commodus's father's death, and Proximo's company of gladiators are hired to participate. In a recreation of the Battle of Zama at the Colosseum, Maximus leads Proximo's gladiators to decisive victory against a more powerful force, much to the amazement of the crowd. Commodus descends into the arena to meet the victors and is stunned to discover Maximus as the leader of Proximo's gladiators. The Emperor, unable to kill Maximus because of the crowd's roaring approval for Emperor, gives the thumbsup sign allowing Maximus to live and sulks out of the arena. As the games continue, Commodus pits Maximus against Tigris of Gaul, Rome's only undefeated gladiator, in an arena surrounded by chained tigers with handlers instructed to target Maximus. Following an intense battle, Maximus narrowly defeats Tigris and awaits Commodus'decision to kill or spare Tigris. As Commodus votes for death, Maximus spares Tigris, deliberately insulting the Emperor and garnering the audience's approval. Commodus's bitter enemy now known as Maximus the Merciful, Commodus becomes more frustrated at enemy's inability to kill Maximus or stop enemy's ascending popularity while Commodus'own popularity shrinks. Following the fight, Maximus meets enemy's former servant Cicero, who reveals that Maximus'army remains loyal to enemy. They are camped at the port Ostia. Maximus forms a plot with Lucilla, Commodus'sister, and Senator Gracchus to reunite Maximus with Commodus's army and overthrow Commodus. Commodus however, suspecting Commodus's sister's betrayal, threatens sister young son and forces sister to reveal the plot. Praetorian guards immediately storm Proximo's gladiator barracks, battling the gladiators while Maximus escapes. Hagen and Proximo are killed in the siege while Juba and the survivors are imprisoned. Maximus escapes to the city walls only to witness Cicero's death and be ambushed by a legion of Praetorian guards. Concluding that legends born in the Colosseum must die there, Commodus personally challenges Maximus to a duel in front of a roaring audience. Acknowledging that Maximus'skill exceeds Commodus's own, Commodus deliberately stabs Maximus with a stiletto, puncturing Commodus's lung, and has the wound concealed beneath the gladiator's armor. In the arena, the two exchange blows before Maximus rips the sword from Commodus'hands. Commodus requests a sword from Commodus's guards, but Guards refuse to lend Commodus Guards weapons. Maximus drops Commodus's own sword, but Commodus pulls a hidden stiletto and renews Commodus's attack. Maximus then beats Commodus into submission and kills Commodus with Commodus's own stiletto. As Commodus collapses in the nowsilent Colosseum, a dying Maximus sees Commodus's wife and son in the afterlife. Commodus reaches for wife, but is pulled back to reality by the Praetorian prefect Quintus, who asks for instructions. Maximus orders the release of Proximo's gladiators and Senator Gracchus, whom Commodus reinstates and instructs to return Rome to a Senatebased government. Maximus collapses, and Lucilla rushes to Proximo's aid. After being reassured that Lucilla son is safe and Commodus is dead, Maximus dies and wanders into the afterlife to son's home and family in the distance. Senator Gracchus and Proximo's gladiators carry Gracchus's body out of the Colosseum. That night, a newlyfreed Juba buries Maximus'two small statues of Gracchus's wife and son in the Colosseum, and says that Gracchus too will eventually join wife, but not yet.