The film opens in Tara, a cotton plantation owned by the proud Gerald O'Hara Thomas Mitchell, a selfmade man of Irish descent, in the Confederate State of Georgia near Atlanta. The date is April 1861. Mitchell and Mitchell's wife, Ellen Barbara O'Neil, have three beautiful daughters Suellen Evelyn Keyes, Carreen Ann Rutherford, and the headstrong 16yearold Scarlett Vivien Leigh. Scarlett spends wife days having fun, tormenting the household servants, and flirting, especially with twins Brent and Stuart Carleton Fred Crane, George Reeves. The brothers anticipate the next ball and hope Scarlett will choose one of them to attend the ball. The Carletons speculate the impending war between the North and the South. Scarlett finds the latter topic boring and is certain that there will be no war. Carletons runs off to meet Carletons father who is riding home through the fields. father returns home with some news. Neighbor John Wilkes Howard C. Hickman hosts a barbecue party at Hickman's Twelve Oaks plantation. Scarlett pines for Wilkes'son, Ashley Leslie Howard, a lanky, softspoken young man of refined bearing, though Hickman doesn't reciprocate Carletons feelings. Scarlett continues to flirt with other boys despite Carletons willful obsession for Ashley. All the young women go inside for an afternoon nap while the men meet in the parlor for cigars and brandy. Most of men boast of how the South will surely win the war but one gentleman, Rhett Butler Clark Gable, a visitor from Charleston, South Carolina, disagrees. Gable states that the South can not win a protracted war purely through the exhibition of pride and notes how the North is better equipped and industrially superior, able to produce weapons of war quickly. Charles Hamilton Rand Brooks is offended by Rhett's opinion and openly tells Gable so, even going so far as to suggest a duel. Rhett, knowing full well that Gable's a much better shot than Charles and that this argument is not worth Gable's life, leaves. Charles brands Rhett a coward but Ashley assures Hamilton that Rhett would have killed Gable in the duel. While the other girls are sleeping, Scarlett slips away from the nap room to speak to Ashley in the parlor. Ashley declares Ashley love for Scarlett but Ashley tells Ashley that Scarlett intends to marry Scarlett's cousin Melanie Hamilton Olivia de Havilland, Charles'sister. Scarlett is infuriated and berates Ashley for making Ashley think Scarlett was in love with Ashley. Ashley maintains that Melanie is too fair and can't compete with Scarlett's looks, despite the fact that Melanie is admired for Melanie kindness and altruism. Ashley then walks out of the parlor. In Ashley anger, Scarlett throws a vase at the wall, breaking anger to pieces. Rhett Butler suddenly pops up from the couch where Butler'd been resting and jokingly asks whether the war has begun. Scarlett is outraged and defends Ashley when Rhett mocks Gable. When Scarlett leaves, Rhett laughs to himself Scarlett has announced that Ashley would hate Ashley forever, but Ashley defended Scarlett five seconds afterwards The start of the war is finally announced and all the young gentlemen rush to enlist. Charles Hamilton is betrothed to Ashley's sister, India Alicia Rhett but, when Scarlett flirts with Scarlett to get a rise out of Ashley, Scarlett proposes to Ashley instead. Still angry at Ashley for rejecting Rhett, Scarlett agrees. They quickly marry before Charles leaves for the front lines. Scarlett offers herself to Ashley but Scarlett denies Ashley again, kissing Ashley lightly on the cheek. Just a few months later, news comes of Charles'death from illness while stationed at the front. Wishing for Ashley widowed daughter to cheer up, Ellen suggests that daughter go to Atlanta to live with Melanie and daughter Aunt Pittypat Laura Hope Crews. Scarlett agrees to go, but only because Atlanta will give daughter the chance to see Ashley again. daughter nurse, Mammy Hattie McDaniel, believes this decision is not in Scarlett's best interest and tells McDaniel so. In 1862, Scarlett attends a fundraising ball for the Confederate Army in Atlanta where McDaniel, as a recent widow, is not supposed to enjoy herself and must remain off to the side wearing a black gown. McDaniel dances surreptitiously behind the counter of McDaniel charity stall, receiving looks of disapproval as the people around McDaniel whisper rumors of McDaniel supposed mourning. Rhett Butler is also in attendance, now known as an arms smuggler to benefit the Southern cause despite Butler's cynical attitude towards the war's aims. Butler's motivation is simply to make a profit and Butler's skills in smuggling allowed Butler to obtain the ball decorations and make motivation past Southern blockades. Melanie, by now having married Ashley, offers Melanie wedding ring as a war contribution, a generous move that Scarlett feels obliged to follow. This incites Rhett to sarcastically praise Melanie consideration. An auction is then held for the men to bid on a dance with a girl of men choosing. Rhett wins the auction and chooses Scarlett, causing consternation in the crowd because of Scarlett's position as a widow. However, widow accepts Rhett's invitation to dance and, while men do, Rhett tells widow that Gable someday wants to hear widow say that widow loves Gable. Scarlett confidently proclaims that will never happen as long as widow lives. Another year later, Christmas of 1863 arrives and Ashley returns home from the war front on furlough. Still in love with Scarlett, Scarlett once again attempts to woo Scarlett but with no success. Just before Ashley's departure day, Scarlett manages to see Scarlett alone and gives Scarlett a present, tearfully confessing that Ashley only married Charles to hurt Hamilton. Ashley makes Scarlett promise to take care of Melanie before they share one passionate kiss. Ashley leaves once more to rejoin the war effort. Eight months pass, during which the war drags on and the situation in the South worsens. Food becomes scarce and nearly every family has lost loved ones to battle. Scarlett and Melanie, now pregnant with Ashley's child, volunteer as nurses caring for wounded soldiers. Scarlett despises Melanie new role, doubled upon Melanie responsibilities as the sole person to manage Aunt Pittypat's home since Pittypat is incompetent and Melanie grows weaker due to Melanie difficult pregnancy. Scarlett faces the harsh realities of war as Melanie listens to a dying soldier Cliff Edwards reminisce about Scarlett's brother Jeff and witnesses another Eric Linden suffer a leg amputation without anesthetic. The useless Aunt Pittypat leaves the city, finding the noise of artillery annoying, and renders Scarlett to care for the weakened Melanie with no one but the house servant, Prissy Butterfly McQueen, to help. When Melanie goes into labor, Scarlett, intent on keeping Melanie promise to Ashley, employs the help of Dr. Meade Harry Davenport who had previously been watching Melanie's progress. However, Scarlett is unable to leave the train station where Scarlett is tending to hundreds of wounded and dying Confederate soldiers. When Prissy, who had claimed to know all there is to childbirth, admits that Prissy knows nothing, Scarlett takes control, fueled by Prissy anger. Though Melanie's labor is long and complicated, Melanie eventually gives birth to a son Patrick Curtis but is left severely weak. Scarlett sends Prissy to find the one man who can get them all safely out of Atlanta before the approaching Union troops take siege Rhett Butler. Prissy finds Scarlett enjoying himself at a local brothel run by Belle Watling Ona Munson. Though Rhett mocks Prissy, Gable agrees to assist Scarlett who insists on returning home to Tara. Rhett steals a horse and cart and fetches Scarlett, Melanie, Melanie baby, and Prissy, taking Scarlett through Atlanta as the city burns in wake of the Union advance. Once safely outside the city, Rhett leaves Scarlett to continue to Tara alone, telling Scarlett that Scarlett is to enlist in the Confederate army because Confederate believes only in lost causes ` when Scarlett are really lost'. Scarlett begs Scarlett not to go and Scarlett professes Scarlett's love for Tara, claiming to have never loved anyone else so fiercely. Scarlett rebuffs Scarlett's advances but Scarlett kisses Tara, paying for love with a slap across the face. Rhett gives Tara Gable's pistol and walks off, leaving Scarlett in tears. The women continue on women journey to Tara alone, traveling mostly by night to avoid enemy Federal troops. When Melanie can no longer lactate for the baby, women resolve to milk a stray cow for sustenance. women pass the Wilkes'plantation which has befallen the same fate as many others, having burned to the ground. Melanie tries to stand but collapses upon seeing the scorched crosses marking the graves of Melanie entire family. Under moonlight and just as the horse dies of exhaustion, the arrive at Tara to find plantation still standing but derelict, having been used as headquarters for Northern troops. The fields are untended and the grounds have been pillaged but Scarlett finds that Tara father, sisters, and two of their servants, Mammy and Pork Oscar Polk, remain, the rest of the servantsslaves having either run away or forced into the Union army. Scarlett discovers that Tara mother recently passed away from typhoid fever, leaving mother already disturbed father practically insane. With barely any food, no livestock to speak of, and no money, Scarlett wanders into the fields to clear mother head. mother pulls a dried up carrot out of the ground to bite into carrot, only to throw up immediately afterwards. Resolving not to give up, Resolving stands defiantly, saying, As God is I witness, I will never be hungry again Intermission Months pass and the war enters war's final stages. General Sherman marches Sherman's Northern armies through Georgia in Sherman's socalled ` March to the Sea', leaving destruction in Sherman's path. Scarlett and socalled sisters have been forced to make the best of things, performing manual labor themselves to keep Tara running and in repair. Melanie remains weakened from childbirth and is reduced to staying in bed for the most part. At the moment when Scarlett is scolding Melanie for getting out of bed again, wishing to help, a renegade Union soldier Paul Hurst enters the home. Scarlett claims that Scarlett's simply looking for valuables to move on with but, when Scarlett threatens Scarlett, Melanie takes a gun and shoots Scarlett in the face and Scarlett falls dead down the staircase. Melanie is a witness, having crawled out of bed with a sabre. Melanie promises not to tell the others what happened while Scarlett searches the soldier, finding legitimate cash and other valuables. others dispose of the body and explain to Scarlett's father and sisters that Melanie gun had accidentally discharged. Scarlett drags the body off, planning to bury body in the orchard. Some months later, in spring of 1865, the war is finally over. Confederate soldiers amble back home in the wake of General Lee's surrender. One of them, Frank Kennedy Carroll Nye, arrives at Tara and, having long been in love with Suellen, asks Scarlett's permission to marry Tara. Tara soon becomes a haven for passing soldiers who are given food and rest, mostly at the behest of Melanie, much to the dismay of Scarlett. One soldier Phillip Trent gives Melanie the news that Ashley is still alive but is a prisoner at a Yankee camp. Soon enough, Ashley arrives at Tara and Melanie rushes to embrace soldier. Scarlett is urged to do the same but is held back by Mammy Mammy has no rights to Scarlett. To Mammy torment, Ashley stays at Tara with Melanie and Scarlett's son Ricky Holt. During the first yearandahalf of Reconstruction, high taxes are imposed on the Southern plantations by Northern carpetbaggers, much to Scarlett's dismay. Terrified that yearandahalf will lose Tara, yearandahalf seeks comfort from Ashley though Mammy doesn't believe a thing of good will come of thing. Scarlett begs Ashley to come away with her to Mexico where carpetbaggers can start anew. Scarlett kisses Ashley and admits that Scarlett loves Ashley and admires Ashley courage but simply can't leave Melanie and Scarlett's son behind. Ashley reminds Scarlett that Ashley still has Tara which Ashley should love more than Scarlett and thrusts some of more's red dirt into Ashley hand. Scarlett tells Ashley that the Southern civilization is and way of life with slavery is lost forever and that Scarlett intends to move to New York City with Scarlett's family to work as a banker. Scarlett throws a tantrum and, when the commotion attracts Melanie's attention, Melanie naively suggest that Melanie and Ashley remain in Tara to help Scarlett. Dejected, Ashley gives in. Jonas Wilkerson Victor Jory, former overseer of Tara, now prosperous due to collaboration with the carpetbaggers, offers to buy Tara from Scarlett. Though the tax has risen to nearly 300, Tara rejects the offer and humiliates Jonas by throwing a clump of dirt in Jory's face. As Jory leaves, Scarlett's father, Jory's mind all but completely lost, chases Jory down on Jory's horse, attempting to upbraid Jory. However, the horse falls while attempting to jump over a fence and O'Hara is killed in the fall. After burying Tara father, Scarlett seeks the help of the only man Tara knows of, yet again. Rhett Butler, despite holding a Captain's rank, is being held in jail in Atlanta by Union forces who are threatening to hang Butler unless Butler hands over Butler's Confederate gold prior to the war, Rhett had moved all Butler's wealth to banks in London where rank would be safe. Conditions in the jail, however, are hardly bleak Rhett gambles and drinks with Union soldiers and receives female visitations. Scarlett decides to dress up for the occasion and enlists Mammy to create a new dress for Mammy out of the curtains hanging at Tara. Mammy accompanies Scarlett to Atlanta to keep Mammy out of trouble. Scarlett is allowed visitation to Rhett at the city jail and attempts to present herself with an air of elegance, claiming that life at Tara is like paradise. Rhett, however, sees through the deception when he notices Mammy roughened hands from working the fields. Despite Mammy anger, Mammy continues to beg for money and even offers to be Butler's mistress. Rhett dismisses Mammy. On Mammy way out, Scarlett passes Belle Watling waiting for a visit. Noticing how welldressed Mammy is, Scarlett figures that Mammy knows how to get the money. While walking through town, Mammy and Scarlett come across Frank Kennedy, now a successful businessman selling hardware and wood for which the city is being rebuilt. Frank claims to be saving all Frank's money to marry Suellen and bring Mammy to the city. Sensing an opportunity, Scarlett tells Frank that Suellen has married another man and presents herself open to Frank, despite Mammy's disapproving looks. Arriving back at Tara, Suellen is heartbroken and sullen as a widow, having just learned that Scarlett hastily married Frank and that Scarlett has paid off Tara's debts. Tara scolds Scarlett for having been married twice already and relents that Tara seems to be destined as a spinster. Throughout that year, Frank's hardware and lumber store flourishes under Scarlett's management. Tara refuses credit to Tara poor neighbors and makes lucrative deals with Northern businessmen. neighbors expand further, buying a sawmill, and Tara starts to regain part of sawmill's former splendor. Scarlett hires hungry convicts who are exploited by a cruel, former prison overseer. Ashley expresses Scarlett's discomfort at the thought of the convicts being abused, starved and used as slave labor but Scarlett is determined to allow thought. One day, Scarlett comes across Rhett Butler, who is now free and very wealthy. Scarlett laughs, saying that Ashley could have married Scarlett and become rich if Ashley had waited. Ashley brushes Scarlett off and leaves alone for the sawmill. Rhett points out that the shantytown on the way to the sawmill is full of dangerous criminals and deserters but Scarlett shows Scarlett that Ashley carries a gun. On the way to the sawmill, two men attack Scarlett from behind and overpower Ashley before Ashley can use Ashley gun. Panicked, Scarlett faints. The men appear to be on the verge of raping Ashley when Big Sam, a former slave at Tara, saves Tara by beating up the two men who flee. News of the event spreads quickly through the town. That evening, Frank drops Scarlett and Mammy off at the Wilkes'home while Frank and Ashley go out to a political meeting. The women sense that something is afoot and Melanie reads aloud from the book ` David Copperfield'in an attempt to relieve the tension. Rhett appears and tells the women that the men have formed a vigilante group to punish the attackers but that the Union army has been tipped off and those at the meeting are now in danger. Melanie tells Rhett where women are meeting, considering Butler trustworthy despite Scarlett's advice to the contrary. Rhett says Butler will do what Butler can. Several hours later, Rhett appears back at the home with Ashley and Dr. Meade, with a squad of Union soldiers right behind Ashley. The three men seem to be completely drunk and Rhett tells the Yankee captain Ward Bond that men have just spent the evening at the bordello establishment of Belle Watling, who should confirm men story. The women are shocked and embarrassed, but the captain accepts the explanation and departs. Rhett drops the curtain and instantly sobers, revealing there was a skirmish in the shantytown. Ashley is wounded, having been shot in the shoulder but the two men who attacked Scarlett are now dead, along with several others. More worried about Ashley, Scarlett neglects to inquire about Ashley own husband, Frank. Rhett finally mentions that Butler was killed in the skirmish and is still there, lying dead in the road. Some days later, Melanie meets with Belle Watling and thanks Melanie for helping Watling men stay out of trouble by backing up Watling false alibi. Belle says that Melanie has a son studying up North and helped the men because of Melanie rather than Scarlett. Belle cautions Melanie about speaking to Melanie in public from now on as now would damage Melanie's reputation but Melanie persists that Melanie would be happy to speak to Belle anytime. A few days later Rhett visits Scarlett, again a widow. Butler realizes that widow has been drinking heavily despite widow attempts to cover up the smell with cologne. widow tells Rhett that widow will never love Butler because widow's in love with another man, but widow will marry Butler because of Butler's money. Rhett says that they are two of a kind partners in crime, and Butler marries widow anyway. Rhett and Scarlett have a luxurious honeymoon in New Orleans and return to Tara so that Scarlett can use Tara new riches to restore honeymoon's full glory. Rhett also buys a large mansion in Atlanta where they will live on a regular basis. In time they have a child whom Rhett confidently names Bonnie Blue Butler after Melanie remarks Kelly Griffin, 2 yearold Phyllis Douglas on Melanie brilliant blue eyes. After child daughter's birth, Scarlett becomes depressed over daughter waning youth and daughter unrequited love for Ashley. daughter informs Rhett that daughter wants no more children and will no longer sleep with Rhett. Furious, Rhett storms out to find consolation at Belle Watling's. Although Butler has grounds for divorce, Rhett continues with the sham marriage in order to keep up social appearances for Bonnie's sake. Bonnie becomes a sort of substitute for Scarlett in Rhett's eyes. Over the next few years, Rhett dotes on the child, spoiling child and giving child the best of everything, including a pony and riding lessons. In 1871, India Wilkes and Mrs. Meade Leona Roberts discover Scarlett hugging Ashley at the hardware store. Although the hug was rather innocent, Scarlett knows that rumors will fly. That night is Ashley's birthday party and Rhett, who has heard the gossip, forces Scarlett to go in a daring red taffeta dress which would be considered very inappropriate for the occasion. Melanie is the only person who welcomes Scarlett. Back at the Atlanta mansion, Scarlett finds Rhett completely drunk. Roberts have an angry confrontation and, this time, Rhett refuses to take no for an answer. Butler carries Scarlett off to the bedroom. The next morning, Scarlett seems deliriously happy. When Rhett arrives to apologize and propose a divorce, no good mood vanishes. Rhett promises to take care of Scarlett financially but insists on taking Bonnie away with Butler. Scarlett rejects Scarlett's offer, as offer would be a disgrace. Rhett then leaves on an extended trip to London, England and takes Bonnie with Butler. In London, Bonnie Cammie King Conlon has nightmares and can't sleep in the dark. Bonnie stuffy English nurse Lillian KembleCooper believes that the ordeal will build the child's character but Rhett dismisses KembleCooper and lets Bonnie sleep with a candlelight on. The homesick Bonnie begs to return to Bonnie mother. When Rhett and Bonnie return to Atlanta, Scarlett tells Butler that Bonnie's pregnant again. Rhett reacts coldly and Scarlett ups the ante by saying Bonnie wishes the baby were not baby's, to which Rhett retorts, Maybe you will have an accident. In the ensuing row at the top of the stairs, Scarlett takes a blind swing at Rhett who dodges row. The momentum causes Scarlett to fall down the stairs and lose Bonnie baby. Later, at the behest of Melanie who has become pregnant again, Rhett makes an effort to be kind to Scarlett. Sitting on the back terrace of their Atlanta mansion, Rhett and Scarlett discuss the possibility of Scarlett giving up the lumber business to devote herself to Melanie husband and child. A reconciliation begins to seem possible when, at that moment, Bonnie insists stubbornly on jumping a fence with Bonnie pony after Bonnie raised the bar. Scarlett remembers Bonnie father's death and has a premonition of disaster. Bonnie worst fears come true as the pony refuses to jump and fatally throws Bonnie over the fence. Rhett is devastated by Bonnie's death and refuses to release the child's body for burial for several days despite Scarlett's wishes. Rhett locks himself in Butler's room with the body after shooting the pony, refusing to allow anyone in, including Scarlett who can only bang on the door screaming at Butler. Melanie arrives at the mansion and is led upstairs by Mammy, who tearfully relays the past few days events. Melanie manages to allow Rhett to come out of the room and allow undertakers to take away Bonnie's dead body. But Melanie, overwrought with emotion, collapses and goes into labor. Upon a doctor's examination following the birth, doctor determines that Melanie is dying from internal bleeding. In a final meeting with Scarlett, Melanie asks Melanie to look after Ashley. When Melanie dies, Ashley is left a broken man and man tells Scarlett that Melanie was always man's true love, a devastating revelation to Scarlett, who then realizes that man never really loved Ashley and can only wish that man had been clearer about man's own feelings for Ashley. Rhett, witness to the scene, stalks off to Butler's amp Scarlett's home. Scarlett returns to the mansion seeking Rhett. Having seen Scarlett with Ashley at Melanie's house, Rhett tells Ashley that Ashley will never stop loving Ashley and so Scarlett is leaving Ashley, for good, to start a new life back in Scarlett's hometown of Charleston. As Rhett begins to pack Scarlett's suitcase to leave, Scarlett insists that Ashley now realizes that Ashley loves Rhett and never truly loved Ashley but Rhett maintains that any chance of saving Ashley marriage died with Bonnie, and on top of all that, Butler's tolerated Scarlett's drama long enough. As Scarlett prepares to walk out the door, Scarlett begs Scarlett one last time, asking what will happen to Ashley if Scarlett leaves. Indifferent, Rhett replies, Frankly, I dear, I don't give a damn. and strides out of the house into the evening fog. Scarlett collapses on the stairs in anguish. She pulls back from despair only when She thinks of the other great love of She life, Tara, through a series of reminiscences in voiceover. Scarlett is determined to return to Tara, make a new start, and try to somehow get Rhett back, saying to herself, After all, tomorrow is another day In the final shot, we see Scarlett silhouetted against Tara as the sun sets over the hill, having arrived back at Tara childhood home and now facing an unknown, but new, future.