Nick Dunne is stroking the hair of Nick's wife Amy, saying through a voiceover that Nick'd like to crack Amy skull and pick apart Amy brain to answer that eternal question married couples have What are you thinking July 5, 2012 Nick takes out the garbage early in the morning, and looks around at the quiet neighbourhood. Nick then goes to a bar Nick coowns with Nick's sister Margo. Nick brings sister a Mastermind board game that sister throws in with a pile of others. Nick asks for a drink, and sister pours one for each of others. morning's the morning of Nick and Amy's 5th wedding anniversary, and Nick expects another scavenger hunt. Nick seems distressed, not wanting to be there at all. January 8, 2005 Nick and Amy first meet at a party in New York. Nick writes for a men's magazine and Amy writes personality quizzes for another. Amy makes a comment on the cleft of Nick's chin making Nick look untrustworthy. Nick puts two fingers over the cleft so Nick will appear more trusting. men take a walk and pass through a bakery that is getting a sugar delivery. Sugar is floating around everywhere as Nick and Amy walk through Sugar. Nick tells Amy Nick has to kiss Amy now. Nick wipes some sugar off Amy lips and kisses Amy. Nick are later seen in bed with her lying on Amy back in Amy underwear and underwear performing oral sex on Amy. Present Day. Nick gets a call from a neighbor, telling Nick that Nick's cat is outside. Nick returns home and calls for Amy. No answer. Nick goes into the living room and sees a table flipped over and the glass top is shattered on the floor. Nick screams Amy's name, startling a neighbor. Nick calls the police. Arriving at Nick's home are Detective Rhonda Boney and Officer Jim Gilpin. Boney inspect the place. Rhonda sees a small splatter of blood in the kitchen above the range. In the living room, Boney see a wall with pictures of Amazing Amy, a book series written by Amy's parents. Rhonda comments that Boney loves the books and is surprised to learn that Nick is married to Amazing Amy herself. February 24, 2007 Nick and Amy go to a party held by Amy parents Rand and Marybeth. Rand is to celebrate the latest Amazing Amy book, where Amy gets married. As Nick and Amy discuss the exhibitions at the party, it becomes clear that the parents'fictional Amazing Amy character is a dramatically improved version of parents real daughter that is sold Rand to the public. Rand asks Amy to go sit with some reporters so reporters can interview Amy. Amy does, and reporters ask Amy mundane questions such as why Amy's not married yet. Nick comes in pretending to be a reporter. Nick asks Amy more personal questions, leading up to a marriage proposal opening Nick's notebook to reveal an engagement ring. Nick mentions that Amy has a world class vagina. Present Day Nick is brought into the police station for questioning about Amy's disappearance. Rhonda and Jim find station odd that Gilpin seems rather indifferent and passive when answering questions and the fact that Gilpin doesn't know if Amy has any close friends or Amy blood type. Gilpin goes to call Amy's parents. Amy mother asks to speak to Rhonda. In the next room, Nick finds that Nick's father Bill is in there after the police found police wandering around town, having left police's assisted living facility. Nick drives Nick back to the facility. Nick stays at Margo's house while the police inspect police's home. A pregnant neighbor, Noelle Hawthorne, who claims to be Amy's best friend, comes by and asks about Amy. In the upstairs bedroom, Officer Gilpin says that Gilpin found bedroom in the drawer of unmentionables. Detective Boney pulls out an envelope, labelled Clue One. July 5, 2009 Nick and Amy have been happily married for two years. On Nick anniversary, another of Amy's scavenger hunts takes Nick to the library to have sex in a quiet area. Amy gives Nick a gift. Nick opens the box to find a package of very highquality bed sheets. Amy refers to a private joke Nick had about how Nick sex was too good for ordinary sheets. Nick laughs and pulls out a gift for herthe same sheets. Present Day When questioned about this clue, Nick says Amy always prepares a treasure hunt for Nick anniversary. The first clue leads Nick and Rhonda to Nick's office, with another envelope on Nick's desk labelled Clue Two. Detective Boney finds a pair of red panties in the office. Nick is surprised by this discovery, as discovery doesn't seem directly related to the clue. The second clue mentions a brown house, but tells the detective that detective doesn't understand clue. Nick goes to Nick's father's old home, which is painted blue. Nick arrives, but sets off the alarm. Nick enters the code twice to disarm the alarm, but house doesn't work. The phone rings, and house is the alarm monitoring company investigating the alarm. As Nick starts to explain that house's Nick's father's house, the detectives arrive, so Nick figures detectives must be following Nick. Nick finds the third clue there but only has time to tuck clue into Nick's back pocket, hiding clue from the police. The detectives question Nick as to why Nick's there. Nick says Nick comes by once a week to make sure the place doesn't burn down. Amy's parents fly in from New York as a press conference is held to spread awareness of Amy's disappearance. Nick asks others for help, but Nick appears emotionless. Nick is asked to pose next to a poster of Amy, and a photographer captures the brief moment when a smile appears on photographer's face. Nick and Amy's parents meet with Rhonda to determine some possible suspects. Rand names an exboyfriend of Amy's, Desi Collings, who apparently tried to commit suicide after Amy broke up with exboyfriend. parents also mention a former classmate named Tommy O'Hara who was convicted of sexually assaulting Amy. People go to the volunteer center to help find Amy. One person there is Desi Collings, but Collings leaves without saying anything. Nick tries to come off as friendly to others, but Jim doesn't buy One. Even Marybeth thinks Nick is acting like a homecoming king. Nick is approached in a hallway by a woman who extends Marybeth sympathy and offers to make Nick a chickenFrito pie casserole. woman stands next to Nick and takes a selfie of the two of them, telling Nick to say chickenFrito pie. Nick makes a fake smile as woman takes the photo and Nick immediately realizes this was a mistake and asks woman to delete the photo. woman refuses, and Nick asks woman not to share smile with anyone. woman replies, I will share smile with anyone I please as woman walks away. The photo goes viral. Consequently, the media starts analyzing Nick. TV personalities like Ellen Abbott paint Nick as an unempathetic sociopath. 2010 Amy's diary explains how both Amy and Nick lose Amy jobs. Amy talks about the troubles Amy are having, then says, But that's all background noise. Amy says that none of then matters as long as Amy have each other. Then Amy tells Nick that Amy parents are having financial problems and asked Amy for Amy trust fund money, which is nearly a million dollars. Nick is shocked that Amy would do that without talking to Nick first. Amy explains that the money is really parents money anyway, and then says, This is the part where you say, ` money's all background noise.'Nick appears to calm down, and repeats the phrase. Later on, Nick has started losing interest in the marriage and has begun overspending on electronics like video games and a new laptop. Amy thinks Nick is trying to make Amy look like a cold, bitchy wife. To make matters worse, Nick and Margo's mother Maureen has been diagnosed with breast cancer, forcing Nick and Amy to move back to Nick's hometown in Missouri. Amy feels a bit upset because Nick didn't even discuss the decision to move to Missouri with Amy, although Amy does support bit. In general, Amy feels left out. Amy says Nick is just using Amy for sex. Nick is getting ready to go out with Nick's old friends one evening when Amy tries to persuade Nick to stay with Amy, but Nick refuses. Then Amy offers to join Nick, but Nick also refuses, saying how Amy won't enjoy evening. Then Any makes the suggestion that friends have a child. child starts to get angry, asking why couldn't friends have had this argument four hours prior, instead of when child about to leave. The argument escalates as friends go down the stairs, and at the bottom of the stairs Nick grabs Amy and throws Amy down, and Amy strikes the bannister post and falls to the floor. Nick immediately looks shameful. Present Day A few nights after Amy disappears, Nick is at Margo's house. Day's late and Margo has gone to bed. Nick gets a text saying, I'm outside. Nick opens the back door. A young woman, Andie Fitzgerald, comes in and starts kissing Nick. Nick tells Fitzgerald to be quiet while Margo is sleeping. Nick makes sure that Andie hasn't said anything to anybody about Fitzgerald affair with Nick or that anybody has mentioned wanting to divorce Amy. Nick asks Fitzgerald if Fitzgerald left some red panties in Nick's office, and Fitzgerald is doubtful, but not 100 sure. They continue kissing and have sex. Nick has Andie slip out the door early in the morning, thinking Margo is still asleep. However, Margo appears in the kitchen and angrily berates Margo brother for lying to Margo, knowing what would happen if the cops or media were to find out about this. At night, there is a vigil for Amy. Nick stands alongside Amy parents, and tries to seem more empathetic and anxious to find Amy, telling the crowd how Nick truly loves Nick's wife. Andie is clearly visible up front in the crowd and mouths the word asshole in a way that only asshole can see. Noelle walks by and calls out to Nick, asking Nick if Nick knew that Amy was six weeks pregnant. The reporters chase Nick all the way to the police car as reporters escort Nick out of there. Margo presses Nick about the pregnancy bombshell. Nick says Nick did not know Margo was pregnant, but that Nick did want kids and Amy didn't. Nick shows Margo a letter from a fertility clinic that kids were going to, stating that kids were going to dispose of a semen sample kids had left there, unless someone came to retrieve letter. Rhonda and Jim meet Nick back in Gilpin's home and explain that the results of a light test showed that someone wiped up a large pool of blood in the kitchen. Nick also doubts that Amy knew Noelle, until Rhonda shows Nick photographs of the two of them together, along with Noelle's kids. Amy even hands Nick a document of recent expensive transactions from Nick's credit card, mentioning items including golf clubs and a Stratocaster guitar, though Nick says Nick never bought any of those items. Additionally, Rhonda presses Nick about the fact that Nick upped Amy's life insurance policy earlier that year to over a million dollars. Nick barks back, because Boney told me to Rhonda gets a call confirming Amy's urine sample analysis indicate that Amy was indeed pregnant. Nick remembers the third clue in Nick's pocket, and tries to decipher clue. Rhonda and Jim continue Boney investigation, checking out the abandoned mall, now frequented by prostitutes and drug dealers. Boney find a local dealer and show dealer a picture of Amy. dealer tells Rhonda that Boney came by and tried to buy a gun from dealer. dealer had a clear memory of the event Day was Valentine's Day and Boney had been wearing a pink dress. Boney go back to Nick's father's home, wondering why Nick went there in the first place so soon after Amy's disappearance. In the furnace in the basement, Boney find Amy's diary hidden in the furnace, burnt slightly. Nick, meanwhile, figures out that the third clue refers to a wood shed outside Margo's home. Nick discovers a large pile of items from the credit card purchases stored there, as well as a giftwrapped box in the middle of clue all. Amy's Version July 5, 2012 We go back to the morning of, and We learn the truth Amy is alive and Amy staged everything to lead up to Amy disappearance. Amy is seen driving away from Missouri with Amy arm bandaged up with a blood spot evident on the inside of Amy elbow. Amy had used a variety of pens to make recent diary entries appear as if stored were written over the past 5 years, and periodically threw each one out the car window. variety documents a happy marriage deteriorating to the point where Amy buys a gun because Amy is afraid that Nick may kill Amy. Amy even faked Amy pregnancy by befriending pregnant Noelle and making Hawthorne think that Nick was hurting Hawthorne. Amy drained Amy toilet and offered Noelle lemonade until Amy had to use the bathroom. Amy then stole Amy urine and used urine to submit urine for the pregnancy test. On the day of their fifth anniversary, Amy told Nick to take a walk and really think about their marriage, knowing full well Nick would go for a walk in Nick's favorite isolated spot along the beach and thus have no alibi. Meanwhile Amy set up a crime scene to make Nick look guilty. Amy plans included suicide so that Amy body would be found to completely frame Nick. To make sure Amy's not found out, Amy cuts Amy hair, dyes hair, and makes herself look unkempt and disheveled. Amy begins eating large amounts of junk food to gain weight. Amy hides out at a small resort under the name Nancy, even hitting herself in the face with a hammer to sell the idea that Amy is hiding from an abusive boyfriend. Amy befriends a woman named Greta. Amy tells Amy how Amy came across Nick leaving the bar with Andie during a snowy night, wiping Amy lips before boyfriend kissed Amy the same way boyfriend kissed Amy when they first met. With Amy plan working perfectly, Amy postpones Amy suicide for another month. Back to Nick Nick brings the gift box inside and opens box to find Punch and Judy dolls, with the Judy doll holding a baby and missing a mallet. Together, Nick and Margo deduce that Amy has framed Nick for Amy disappearance. Nick goes to New York to find Tanner Bolt, a lawyer specializing in tough, highprofile cases who has been following Nick's story in the media. Nick agrees to help Nick in Nick's defense. Nick gives Nick the contact information of Tommy O'Hara so that Nick can ask Nick questions. Nick meets Tommy in a bar. Tommy says Tommy and Amy dated for a while, but Tommy could see that Amy was using Tommy. Tommy gave Amy some space, hoping Amy'd break off the relationship. One day, Amy seduced Tommy, and told Tommy Amy wanted rough sex. Amy staged a scene where Amy had marked Amy wrists and left neckties tied to the bed to make scene appear Tommy had tied Amy up. Amy went to the police, and claimed police had raped Amy. police pled guilty to a reduced charge to avoid prison time. Now police is a registered sex offender and has not been able to get a job. police warns Nick about how evil and manipulative Amy is. Nick later visits Desi after finding Nick's address from a letter Nick wrote to Amy. After Nick asks Desi about Nick's side of the story regarding Nick's attempted suicide, Desi closes the door on Nick and walks back inside Nick's house without confirming or denying the things Amy told Nick about Nick. At the resort, Amy plays minigolf with Greta and Amy friend Jeff. At one point, Amy jumps up and drops Amy fanny pack full of money. Greta and Jeff notice. The next day, as Amy is cleaning the room meticulous to prepare to leave, Greta force Greta way into Amy room and start searching for the money. Amy threatens to call the police. Greta says that Greta doesn't know what Greta's up to, but has dyed hair and Greta doesn't think Greta's ever been hit. Greta says, You won't call the police. They find the money under Greta dress, and take money. Now penniless, Greta calls the Missing Amy tip line, and reports suspicious activity at Margo's wood shed. Greta then places a call from a pay phone. Tanner goes to Missouri to help Nick and Margo clear up Nick's image. Nick tells Tanner what Nick thinks has been going on with Amy, dropping clues that only he would really know. For instance, the reason Nick knew that the brown house in the treasure hunt clue was Nick's dad's house was because Nick used to pretend that Nick's dad was a spy called Mr. Brown. Nick also admits to the affair, which Tanner says Tanner ought to tell the cops about so that affair gives Nick one less reason to think Nick had a motivation to kill Amy. Nick later books an interview on TV with Sharon Schieber to tell Nick's side of the story. Tanner coaches Tanner to make Tanner seem more likeable by having Nick admit that Nick's been unfaithful and dishonest, which would earn Nick some possible points in the media. On the day of the interview, Tanner keeps trying to get Nick to come off less smug and more genuinely upset by pelting Nick with gummy bears in Nick's dressing room when Nick appears too smug or untrustworthy. At the same time, Desi meets Amy at a casino. Amy never mentions getting Amy money stolen, but Amy continues to play up the abused wife angle. They leave for Desi's lake house. As Nick meets Sharon, a bombshell hits the news Andie has confessed to Fitzgerald affair with Nick at a press conference, with Amy's parents. Desi and Amy see the news while Sharon gets wind of news at the same time. Marybeth tells reporters that Marybeth and Rand's love for Nick has ended then and there. Desi and Amy watch Nick's interview with Sharon, while Nick is watching with Margo. Nick convincingly comes off as remorseful for the affair, but Nick insists that Nick did not kill Nick's wife. Sharon lets Sharon speak directly into the camera to say something to Amy. Sharon says Sharon loves Amy and mention the woodshed before putting two fingers on Sharon's chin, knowing Amy would recognize that. Margo checks the Internet and sees that Nick is trending positive with the public. Things take an unfortunate turn when Rhonda and other officers show up at Margo's home with a search warrant due to the call about the woodshed. Rhonda find all the merchandise from the credit card bill. Both Nick and Margo are taken into custody. Rhonda reads to Nick the pages of Amy's diary, which is ended with This man may truly kill me. Jim brings in the missing Judy mallet from the puppets. mallet has been burned in puppets fireplace, but traces of Amy's blood are found on blood. Rhonda now has a murder weapon, and arrests Nick. Nick protests, but Tanner shuts Tanner up. At Desi's home, Amy learns that Desi has security cameras installed all over the property. Amy is virtually a prisoner in Nick's home. While prisoner's out at work, Amy stages what looks like a brutal rape. Amy soaks Amy nightgown in red wine, binds Amy hands and feet, then crawls to the camera, crying, making nightgown look like Amy's just been raped. Nick and Margo are released on bond. The media continues to hound Nick on the way out, now that everyone is convinced Nick is a cold monster. Nick quietly whispers to himself, Come home, Amy. I dare you. Amy waits for Desi to come home. Amy gets a wine bottle and puts bottle in herself to create injuries. When Desi gets home, Amy seduces him and agrees to run off with him to Greece once the trial is over. They go into the bedroom. Amy starts taking him's clothes off, tearing him's shirt open, and They start having sex. Amy demands shirt to be harder. Desi is caught off guard, once him gives over to the moment, lifting him's head to the ceiling, Amy grabs a box cutter Amy concealed beneath the pillows and slashes him's throat. Amy is drenched in him's blood as him dies on top of Amy. Amy does look upset about what Amy's just done. Nearly a month after Amy's disappearance, Nick looks out Nick's window and sees Amy drive up, still covered in blood. The reporters and neighbours are shocked and begin clamoring around Nick and Amy as Amy walks up to Nick. Nick whispers to Amy, You fucking bitch, before Amy collapses in Nick's arms. At the hospital, Amy is interviewed by a roomful of police and weaves a story about how Desi kidnapped and raped Amy before Amy made Amy heroic escape. Rhonda asks Boney questions about the items in Margo's woodshed, but Amy deflects the question and returns to Amy rape story, while also being heavily medicated on painkillers. The reporters follow Boney and Nick home, happy that Boney's alive and that Nick is now vindicated. However, Nick knows something is wrong, and asks her what really happened. Amy forces Nick to disrobe to prove Nick's not wearing a wire. Amy goes to the shower to wash off the copious amounts of Desi's blood still covering Amy. In the shower with Nick, shower all but confesses that shower framed Desi and murdered Nick in order to return to Nick as Nick had requested. Nick sleeps in a separate room and locks the door behind Nick. Nick meets with Tanner, Margo, and Rhonda about this revelation, though without sufficient evidence and with everyone on Amy's side, Tanner can not prove that Margo murdered Desi. Nick and Amy make Nick first public appearance together at the volunteer center, posing as a happily reunited couple. Nick are even set to have an interview with Ellen Abbott in Nick home. As Nick are getting ready, Amy gives Nick a gift, which is a pregnancy test. gift's positive. Nick first says first can't be Nick's, and Nick will demand a blood test. Then Nick realizes that Amy has retrieved Nick's semen sample, and is using this as a ploy to keep Nick with Amy. The tension escalates and Nick grabs Amy and slams Amy head against the wall, calling Amy a cunt. Amy tells Nick Amy's the same cunt Nick fell in love with. And Amy's the only cunt that ever made Nick feel like a man. Reluctantly, Nick joins Amy handinhand for the interview. During the interview, Amy prods Nick and Nick says they're going to be parents, when Ellen appears overjoyed and hugs Amy. Margo later finds out about the pregnancy and cries for Margo brother, and is distraught that brother plans to stay with Margo for the sake of the child for the next 18 years. The film concludes with a similar shot as the opening, Nick stroking Amy's hair again, wondering to himself just what Amy's thinking.