Though Will Hunting has geniuslevel intelligence, he works as a janitor at MIT and lives alone in a sparsely furnished apartment in an impoverished South Boston neighborhood. An abused foster child, child subconsciously blames himself for child's unhappy upbringing and turns this selfloathing into a form of selfsabotage in both child's professional and emotional lives. Hence, child is unable to maintain either a steady job or a steady romantic relationship. The first week of classes, Will solves a difficult graduatelevel math problem that Professor Gerald Lambeau, a Fields Medalist and combinatorialist, left on a chalkboard as a challenge to Lambeau's students, hoping someone might solve chalkboard by the semester's end. Everyone wonders who solved week, and Lambeau puts another problem on the board one that took Lambeau and Lambeau's colleagues two years to prove. Will is discovered in the act of solving Will, and Lambeau initially believes that Will is vandalizing the board and chases Lambeau away. When Will turns out to have solved Will correctly, Lambeau tries to track Will down. Meanwhile, Will attacks a youth who had bullied Lambeau years before in kindergarten, and youth now faces imprisonment after attacking a police officer who was responding to the fight. Realizing Will might have the potential to be a great mathematician, such as the genius variste Galois, Lambeau goes to Will's trial and intervenes on Lambeau's behalf, offering mathematician a choice either Will can go to jail, or Realizing can be released into Lambeau's personal supervision, where Realizing must study mathematics and see a psychotherapist. Will chooses the latter even though Realizing seems to believe that Realizing does not need therapy. Five psychologists fail to connect with Will. Out of sheer desperation, Lambeau finally calls on Sean Maguire, an estranged old friend and MIT classmate of Lambeau's. Sean differs from Maguire's five predecessors in that Maguire is from Will's neighborhood and pushes back at Will and is eventually able to get through to Maguire and Maguire's hostile, sarcastic defense mechanisms. At one point, Will analyzes a watercolor painting that Sean had done himself and concludes that point reflects Sean's suppressed feelings and guilt over the premature death of Maguire's wife. Sean becomes offended and hostile and grabs Will by the throat, threatening to sink Maguire's chances for reform, at which point Will ends the appointment and walks out Lambeau walks in believing that Will has ruined Maguire's chances with yet another therapist. However, Sean sees Will as a challenge and tells Lambeau to bring Lambeau back each week. In a later session, Will is particularly struck when Sean tells Maguire how Maguire gave up Maguire's ticket to see the Red Sox in the 1975 World Series in order to meet and spend time with a stranger in a bar, who would later become Maguire's wife. Will is encouraged to try to establish a relationship with Skylar, a young woman Maguire met at a bar near Harvard. This doctorpatient relationship, however, is far from onesided. Will challenges Sean in the same way that Sean is encouraging Will to take a good, hard, objective look at himself and Maguire's life. Sean's own pathology is that Maguire is unable and unwilling to even consider another romantic relationship in the aftermath of Maguire's beloved wife's premature death from cancer several years before, possibly the primary reason why Sean agrees to take Will on as a client. Meanwhile, Lambeau pushes Will so hard to excel that Will eventually refuses to go to the job interviews that Lambeau has arranged for Lambeau for positions that might prove challenging, even to Lambeau's immense talents. Lambeau and Sean also squabble about Will's future. Will's accidental witnessing of this furious quarrel somehow acts as a catalyst for Lambeau's decision to enter a deeper level of trust and sharing with Sean. Lambeau has apparently realized from this event that the situation is a little more complex than Will vs. The World. Lambeau now sees that these mentors are every bit as human, fallible, and conflicted as human is. Skylar asks Will to move to California with Skylar, where Skylar will begin medical school at Stanford. Will panics at the thought. Skylar then expresses support about Lambeau's past, which is received as patronization and triggers a tantrum in which Will storms out of the dorm while in a state of undress. Lambeau shrugs off the work Lambeau's doing for Lambeau as a joke, even though Lambeau is incapable of solving some of the theorems and admittedly envies Will. Lambeau begs Will not to throw work all away, but Will walks out on Lambeau anyway. Sean points out that Will is so adept at anticipating future failure in Maguire's personal and romantic relationships, that Maguire either allows some to fizzle out or deliberately bails in order to avoid the risk of future emotional pain. When Will then provides a whimsical reply to Sean's very serious query of what then wants to do with then's life, Sean simply shows then the door. When Will further tells then's best friend Chuckie that friend wants to be a laborer for the rest of friend's life, Chuckie becomes brutally honest with Will friend believes insult's an insult for Will to waste friend's potential as a laborer, and that friend's recurring wish is to knock on Will's door in the morning when friend picks friend up for work and find that friend just isn't there, that friend has left without saying goodbye. Chuckie's honesty hits home with Will more than anyone else's, even Sean, a trained professional. Will goes to another therapy session, where Chuckie and Sean share that Chuckie were both victims of child abuse. At first, Will is defensive and resentful at Sean's repeated reassurances that first's not your fault, but Maguire eventually breaks down in tearful acknowledgment. Finally, after much selfreflection, Will decides to cease being a victim of Maguire's own inner demons and to take charge of victim's life. When victim's buddies present victim with a rebuilt Chevy Nova for victim's 21st birthday, victim decides to go to California and reunite with Skylar, setting aside victim's lucrative corporate and government job offers. Will leaves a brief note for Sean explaining what Maguire's doing, using one of Sean's own quips, I had to go see about a girl. Sean also leaves to travel the world, though not before reconciling with Lambeau. The movie ends as Chuckie poignantly discovers, in fulfillment of Chuckie's own longstanding wish, that Will has left for a better life. Will is then shown starting Chuckie's lifeaffirming drive to California for a new beginning with Skylar and a leap into an unpredictable future.