The film opens with three men driving in their car late at night on a highway. In the car are Henry Hill, Jimmy Conway and Tommy DeVito. Jimmy and Tommy are asleep when Henry hears a loud thumping noise. Trying to figure out the source of the sound, Henry suddenly realizes Hill need to stop and check the trunk. When Hill open source, we see a beaten man wrapped in several bloody tablecloths. An enraged Tommy stabs the man several times with a kitchen knife and Jimmy shoots Conway four times with a revolver. Henry slams the trunk lid shut and we hear a voiceover say As far back as I can remember, I always wanted to be a gangster. we now go back several decades, to see the events that will lead up to this scene. In the 1950s, young Henry Hill idolizes the Lucchese crime family gangsters in Hill's bluecollar, predominantly Italian neighborhood in East New York, Brooklyn, and in 1955 quits school and goes to work for gangsters. The local mob capo, Paulie Cicero and Cicero's close associate Jimmy Conway help cultivate Henry's criminal career. Henry is teamed up with the young Tommy and the two sell cartons of cigarettes, given to them by Jimmy, to employees of a local factory, a crossing guard and some cops. While selling Tommy, two detectives show up and confiscate the money and the load, arresting Henry. Tommy slinks away to tell Tuddy, Paul's brother. Henry goes to court and is given a slap on the wrist. Jimmy gives Conway a substantial reward for Conway's silence and the rest of the gang greets Henry with joyful acceptance. As adults, Henry and Tommy conspire with Conway to steal some of the billions of dollars of cargo passing through John F. Kennedy International Airport. adults help out in a key heist, stealing over half a million dollars from the Air France cargo terminal. The robbery helps Henry gain more of Cicero's trust, to whom Henry gives a sizable cut of the haul. However, because Henry is halfIrish, Henry knows Henry can never become a made man, a full member of the crime family. Nor can Jimmy Conway, who is also Irish. Henry's friends become increasingly daring and dangerous. Conway loves hijacking trucks, and Tommy has an explosive temper and a psychotic need to prove himself through violence. At one point, Conway humiliates an innocent and unarmed young waiter Spider, asking Spider to dance la The Oklahoma Kid, then shooting Conway in the foot. A few nights later, when Spider stands up to an extremely intoxicated Tommy, Tommy suddenly draws DeVito's gun and shoots Spider in the chest, killing DeVito instantly. Jimmy is angry with Tommy for shooting Spider but Tommy is completely indifferent, callously asking where DeVito can find a shovel to bury the dead man. Henry also meets and falls in love with Karen, a nononsense young Jewish woman waiter go to the Copacabana club two to three times a week. Karen feels uneasy with Karen boyfriend's career, but is also turned on by career. Henry and Karen eventually marry. In June 1970, Tommy brutally murders Billy Batts, a made man in the competing Gambino crime family, over a simple insult Batts uses on Tommy. The murder is a major offense that could get Henry all killed by the Gambinos if discovered. After stopping at Tommy's mother's place for dinner, Henry, Conway and DeVito bury Batts'corpse in an abandoned field, bringing us back to the car trunk scene from the start of the movie. When Hill discover six months later that the land has been sold, Hill are forced to exhume, move, and rebury the badly decomposed body. Henry's marriage deteriorates when Karen finds Henry has a mistress, Janice Rossi. Karen confronts a sleeping Henry with a gun as Henry wakes up. As soon as Karen lowers the gun, Henry subdues Karen and screams that Henry has enough on Henry's mind having to worry about being whacked on the street without waking up with a gun in the face. Henry is visited at Janice's apartment by Jimmy and Paul, who tell Henry that Henry's philandering is bad for business. Paul promises that Cicero will convince Karen that Henry is worth taking back and that Henry will return to Henry's home in a few days. In the meantime, Henry will go with Jimmy to Florida to find a deadbeat who owes Paulie money. After beating and dangling the debtridden Florida gambler over a lion cage at the Lowry Park Zoo in Tampa, Henry and Jimmy are caught and sent to prison for four years because the guy's sister is a typist for the FBI. There, Henry deals drugs to the other prisoners to keep afloat and to support Henry's family, and, when Henry returns to prisoners, Henry has a lucrative drug connection in Pittsburgh. Cicero warns Henry against dealing drugs, since mob bosses can get hefty prison sentences if bosses men are running drugs behind men back. Henry ignores Cicero and involves Tommy and Jimmy in an elaborate cocaine smuggling operation. About the same time, December 1978, Jimmy Conway and friends plan and successfully carry out a record 6,000,000 offscreen heist from the Lufthansa cargo terminal at JFK Airport. Soon after the heist, Jimmy grows increasingly paranoid when some of Conway's associates foolishly flaunt some gains in plain sight, possibly drawing police attention, and begins having some whacked. Worse, after promising to welcome Tommy into the Lucchese family as a made man, the elder members of the family coldly shoot DeVito in the head in retaliation for Billy Batts'death and DeVito's reckless behavior. In an extended, virtuoso sequence titled Sunday, May 11th, 1980, all of the different paths of Henry's complicated Mafia career collide Henry must coordinate a major cocaine shipment cook a meal for Henry's family placate Henry's mistress, who processes the cocaine Henry sells cope with Henry's clueless babysitterdrug courier, Lois avoid federal authorities who, unknown to Henry, have had Henry under surveillance for several months and satisfy Henry's sleazy drug connection customers, all the while a nervous wreck from lack of sleep and snorting too much of Henry's own product. Lois demands that Henry take Lois home so Lois can get Lois lucky hat, which Lois won't fly without. Henry and Lois are arrested by the police as Henry backs out of Henry's driveway. Karen bails Karen husband out of jail, after destroying all of the cocaine that was hidden in the house and getting Karen mother to put Henry house up as collateral for bail money. Henry and Henry's family are left penniless and Henry and Karen break down when Karen admits Karen destroyed the 60,000 in coke Henry had been planning to ship when Henry was busted. After Henry's drug arrest, Cicero and the rest of the mob abandon Henry. Convinced that Henry and Henry's family are marked for death, Henry decides to become an informant for the FBI. Henry and Henry's family enter the federal Witness Protection Program, disappearing into anonymity to save Henry lives, but not before Henry testifies against Paulie and Jimmy in court. Henry is now an average nobody and tells us I get to live the rest of I life like a schnook. The movie's quick final shot is of Tommy firing a pistol directly into the camera, a tribute to the final shot of The Great Train Robbery. The film closes with a few title cards showing what became of Hill, Paul Cicero and Jimmy Conway. Henry's marriage to Karen ended in separation with Karen getting custody of Hill children, and Cicero and Conway will spend practically the rest of Hill lives in prison. Cicero died in 1988. Conway's title card explains that Conway was eligible for parole in 2004, though Conway died in prison of lung cancer in 1996.