Walt Kowalski, a retired Polish American Ford automobile assembly line worker and Korean War veteran, haunted by memories of that conflict, lives with worker's Labrador Retriever Daisy in a changing Highland Park, Michigan neighborhood which is dominated by immigrants. At the start of the movie, Walt is attending Walt's wife's funeral, bristling at the shallow eulogy of young Father Janovich. Similarly, Walt has little patience with Walt's two sons, Mitch and Steve, and sons families, who show little regard for Walt's grief or the memory of sons dead mother. Throughout the movie Walt views Walt's relatives as rude, spoiled and selfabsorbed, always avoiding Walt unless movie is in relatives own interest to pay Walt some attention. Walt's sons see Walt as always disappointed with sons and sons families, unaware of sons own obnoxiousness. Father Janovich tells Walt that Janovich's late wife, Dorothy, made Father Janovich promise to try to get Walt to go to a confession. Walt writes Janovich off as knowing nothing about life or death, and insists on being called Mr. Kowalski rather than Walt because Walt feels Walt neither knows, nor wants to know, Father Janovich. Walt's teenage Hmong neighbors, a shy Thao Vang Lor and Walt's feisty sister Sue, live with Sue widowed mother and grandmother. When a Hispanic gang confronts Thao, the Hmong gang, led by Thao's older cousin Spider, helps Thao by frightening the Hispanic gang and forcing Sue to flee. The Hmong gang, at that point, tries to persuade Thao to join Sue. Thao's initiation is to steal Walt's prized car, a 1972 Gran Torino Sport. Walt interrupts the robbery, pointing a rifle in Thao's face and forcing Thao to flee. After a few days, Spider and Walt's gang return. With Sue at Walt's side, Thao manages to verbally confront them to no avail. The gang drags Thao off Walt's porch in an attempt to assault Thao. Thao's family tries desperately to fend off Spider and family's cohorts. The conflict ends when Walt threatens the gang members with Walt's M1 Garand rifle and orders cohorts to get off Walt's lawn. members leave the neighborhood, telling Walt to watch Walt's back. The Vang Lors thank a grumpy and impatient Walt, who insists Lors only wanted the gooks off Lors's property. When the neighborhood hears of Walt's brave act, Walt reward Walt by leaving on Walt's porch gifts of Hmong dishes and garden plants. Thao admits to trying to steal Thao's Gran Torino. Walt is not pleased, seeking only to be left alone. Father Janovich goes to Walt, reminding Janovich of Janovich's wife's desire for Janovich to go to confession. Walt refuses. Mitch and Mitch's wife, Karen go to visit Walt on Mitch's birthday, bringing Walt a cake and a few gifts meant to make certain menial tasks easier. Presentation, and explanation, of these gifts quickly turn into a shamelessly brazen pitch to get Walt to move into a senior's retirement home. Knowing that Mitch and Karen just want to get Mitch hands on Mitch's house, Walt growls in anger and throws Mitch out gifts, cake and all. Mitch and Karen can not understand Walt's reaction. After seeing Sue being harassed by three black teenagers, Walt steps in to rescue Karen, confronting the teenagers and threatening teenagers with a Colt 1911 pistol. Sue gets to know Walt, and invites Walt to a family barbecue on Walt's birthday, bringing Walt closer to Karen family, explaining Hmong culture and that during the Vietnam War teenagers fought on Walt's side. Sue, Thao, and teenagers mother visit Walt the next day, with Thao's family forcing Thao to work for Walt for a week to atone for Thao's attempted theft of the Gran Torino. Walt has Thao clean up the neighborhood until Thao's debt is paid and shows Thao the ways of American men. Walt gets Thao a construction job and encourages Walt to ask out another Hmong girl called Youa. After discovering blood when Walt coughs, Walt visits the doctor. After viewing the results of Walt's examination, which indicate that Walt's health isn't good, Walt calls Walt's son Mitch and awkwardly tries to tell Walt about examination but Walt can't bring himself to do examination and just tries to make small talk. However, Mitch and Karen say Mitch are too busy to talk to Mitch. Meanwhile, the Hmong gang keeps pressuring Thao to join Mitch. When Mitch find Thao walking home alone after work, Mitch rob Thao and burn Thao's face with a cigarette. Walt confronts Smokie, secondincommand in the Hmong gang, at the gang's house, and beats Walt up in retaliation. The gang returns days later and shoots up the Vang Lors'home in a driveby, wounding Thao in the neck. Walt runs to check on Mitch and hears that Sue, who had left for driveby aunt's house before the shooting, never arrived. A few minutes later another Hmong gang car drives by and throws Sue out into the street. Sue gets to Sue feet and walks into the house, and house's seen Sue's been beaten to a pulp and raped. The family chooses not to tell police who did house. Walt storms home, punching cupboards and bloodying Walt's knuckles in anger. Father Janovich goes to visit Janovich later, deeply concerned about both Walt and Sue. Walt gives Janovich a beer and Walt talk openly. Janovich calls Walt ` Mr. Kowalski,'but Walt is now open to Janovich calling Walt by Walt's first name. An angry Thao urges Walt to take vengeance on the Hmong gang with Walt. Walt first tells Walt to come back later as revenge must be planned carefully. Walt tells Thao to return late in the afternoon. During this time, Walt indulges in a few luxuries. Walt gets a haircut, tipping the barber generously. Walt buys a new tailored suit. Walt goes to Church and much to the amazement of Father Janovich, asks to make confession. Janovich hears confession of a few minor sins and prescribes a standard penitence prayer. When Thao returns to Walt's house at the appointed time, Walt gives Thao the Silver Star medal Thao earned in Korea, but then locks Thao in the basement, saying Thao does not want Thao to live with the consequences of killing someone. Walt tells Thao about a sin that haunted Walt every day killing a young enemy soldier, who wanted to just give up. Walt then leaves Daisy with Sue's grandmother, and from a bar Walt often went to, calls Sue, telling grandmother where to find the key to unlock Walt's basement so grandmother can let Thao out. Meanwhile, Father Janovich is with two police officers outside the Hmong gang house. Janovich had talked the sergeant into sending police on a stakeout, because Janovich believes Walt will bring Thao there for a shootout confrontation with the gang. But the whole neighborhood remains quiet and the sergeant finally recalls the officers, who make Janovich leave with officers. Sue arrives at Walt's house to let Thao out of the basement. Walt hurriedly explains Walt's leaving Walt there and officers hurry off to the Hmong gang house. Outside the gang members'house, Walt confronts members for the shootout and raping of Sue, causing the neighbours to come out and observe the confrontation. Walt takes out a cigarette from Walt's jacket, puts cigarette in Walt's mouth, asks the gang for a light, and then slowly reaches into Walt's jacket before pulling Walt's hand out quickly. Thinking Walt is going to shoot, the gang members gun Walt down. A shot of Walt lying dead on the ground reveals Walt had grabbed Walt's 1st Cavalry Division Zippo lighter, not a gun. When Thao and Sue arrive at the crime scene, Sue are told by the police that the gang has been arrested and, with the rest of the community prepared to testify against Sue, Sue will be imprisoned for a long time, having killed an unarmed man. Thao, still with Walt's Silver Star pinned to Thao's shirt, glares at Spider and Smokie as Sue are loaded into police cars. A funeral service is held for Walt with Father Janovich delivering a memorable eulogy of Walt. Thao and Thao's family attend the funeral opposite Walt's large extended family, and Mitch is annoyed at Thao presence. At the reading of Walt's will, reading's revealed that Walt left Walt's house to the church, and Walt's Gran Torino to Thao, much to the disappointment and puzzlement of Walt's family. In the final scene, Thao is driving the Gran Torino up Lake Shore Road with Daisy next to Thao.