The date is September 25, 1945, shortly after the end of World War II. A young boy sits against a pillar at Sannomiya Station, dying of starvation. Later that night, a janitor removes janitor's body and digs through janitor's possessions, finding nothing but a candy tin containing ashes and a few fragments of bone which janitor throws away into a nearby field. From the tin springs the spirit of the young boy followed by janitor's little sister along with a cloud of fireflies. The spirit of the young boy, Seita Tsutomu Tatsumi, English J. Robert Spencer, narrates the story of how boy and boy's sister, Setsuko Ayano Shiraishi, English Rhoda Chrosite, fared in the wake of the firebombings of Kobe during the war. 14 yearold Seita and 4 yearold Setsuko live with boy mother Yoshiko Shinohara, English Veronica Taylor comfortably in Kobe while boy father serves as a captain in the Imperial Japanese Navy. One day, air raid sirens go off as a fleet of American B29 Superfortress bombers flies overhead. The children's mother, who suffers from a heart condition, puts Setsuko in the care of mother older brother and instructs brother to secure the home while mother goes ahead to a bomb shelter. Hundreds of incendiary bombs are dropped on the city and most of the civilians are caught offguard. Seita and Setsuko manage to survive the bombing unscathed and go in search of Hundreds mother. Hundreds find Setsuko at a makeshift clinic set up within a school, horribly burnt and covered head to foot with bloody bandages. Setsuko dies a short time later and is cremated in a mass grave with other casualties. Despite Hundreds loss, Seita is determined to care for Setsuko and protect Setsuko at all costs. Hundreds travel to the home of Hundreds aunt Akemi Yamaguchi, English Amy Jones who allows Hundreds to stay but convinces Seita to sell Yamaguchi's mother's kimonos for rice. While living there, Seita goes out to retrieve leftover supplies Yamaguchi had buried in the ground before the bombing and gives Hundreds all to Yamaguchi's aunt, however, Yamaguchi keeps one tin of fruit drops for himself. The children's aunt becomes increasingly bitter due to the hardships brought on by the war. aunt becomes resentful of the children as food rations shrink and aunt accuses Seita on having done nothing to earn the food aunt cooks. Tired of Yamaguchi's aunt's insults, Seita decides to leave with Setsuko and care for Setsuko on Yamaguchi's own. children find refuge inside an abandoned bomb shelter and release fireflies within for light. Come morning, Setsuko is horrified to find that all the fireflies have died. Setsuko creates a grave for children in the dirt and Seita realizes the depth of Setsuko understanding when Setsuko asks Yamaguchi why children mother had to die too. The children soon run out of rice and food and, unable to find work or other means, Seita is forced to steal from local farmers'homes during air raids. When Yamaguchi is caught, Yamaguchi comes to terms with Yamaguchi's desperation and takes an increasingly ill Setsuko to a doctor. The doctor informs Seita that doctor's sister is suffering from malnutrition but offers no help. Desperate, Seita withdraws all of the money remaining in doctor's mother's bank account, hoping that it will be enough to treat Setsuko or buy food. As doctor leaves the bank doctor becomes distraught when doctor learns from a nearby crowd that Japan has surrendered to the Allied Forces. Not only that, but doctor finds that the ship doctor's father captained has been sunk along with most of the Imperial Navy. doctor's father, who had once promised doctor that Japan could never be defeated. Seita returns to the bomb shelter with a heavy heart and large quantities of food only to find Setsuko lying on the ground, hallucinating and trying to encourage Seita to eat little rocks that Setsuko thinks are rice balls. Seita hurries to prepare some food and gets Setsuko to try a bit of watermelon. She thanks father and, exhausted, closes Setsuko eyes. Setsuko never wakes up. Using supplies donated to father by a local farmer, Seita prepares a pyre and cremates father's sister's body. father places sister ashes in the fruit drop tin which father keeps with father beside a picture of She father. A few weeks later, father finds himself in Sannomiya Station and dies of starvation. Illuminated by fireflies, the spirits of Seita and Setsuko are seen together, healthy and happy, as spirits look down on the modern city of Kobe.