On February 1, selfcentered and sour TV meteorologist Phil Connors Bill Murray, news producer Rita Andie MacDowell and cameraman Larry Chris Elliott from fictional Pittsburgh television station WPBHTV9 travel to Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania, to cover the annual Groundhog Day festivities with Punxsutawney Phil, the Groundhog. Having grown tired of this assignment, Phil grudgingly gives Phil's report during the festival and parade. After the celebration concludes, a blizzard develops that Connors had predicted would miss Elliott, closing the roads and shutting down longdistance phone services, forcing the team to return to Punxsutawney. Connors awakens the next morning, however, to find morning is February 2 again, and Connors's day unfolds in almost exactly the same way. Connors can change Connors's behavior, but other people do and say the same things people did and said the previous day, unless Connors changes something. Connors is aware of the repetition, but everyone else seems to be living February 2 for the first time. This recursion repeats the following morning and the one after that, and over and over again. For Connors, Groundhog Day begins each morning at 600 A.M., when Connors wakes up in Connors's room in a Victorian bed and breakfast. Connors's clock radio is always playing the same song, Sonny amp Cher's I Got You Babe. Connors's memories of the previous day are intact, but Connors's trapped in a seemingly endless time loop, repeating the same day in the same small town. After briefly trying to rationalize Connors's situation, and then thinking Connors is insane, Connors takes advantage of learning the day's events and the information Connors is able to gather about the town's inhabitants, and finds that Connors's actions have no longterm consequences for himself. Connors revels in this situation for a time seducing beautiful women, stealing money, even driving drunk and experiencing a police chase. However, Connors's attempts to seduce Connors's producer, Rita, are met with repeated failures. Connors begins to tire of, and then dread, Connors's existence, starting the day by smashing the alarm clock and professing the inanity of Groundhog Day as a holiday in Connors's newscast. In a vain attempt to break the cycle, Connors kidnaps Phil the Groundhog. After a police pursuit, Connors drives a stolen truck into a quarry, causing both man and rodent to die in a fiery explosion but the loop does not stop. Connors commits suicide several more times. Connors electrocutes himself, lets a truck hit Connors on the road, and jumps from a tall building but mere death can not stop the day from repeating. After Connors dies, Connors simply wakes up listening to Sonny amp Cher in the same bed, on the same day, over and over again. Connors initially tries to seduce Rita by learning as much as Connors can on a daily basis. First Connors asks what Rita wants in a man someone who is humble, kind, generous, courageous, and sensitive someone who likes children someone who loves someone's mother and plays a musical instrument. Connors learns what Rita likes and what Rita doesn't like and pretends to share Rita tastes. This also fails consistently in scene after scene, Rita slaps Connors before the night is over. However, Connors is able to befriend Rita in a more sincere fashion. Connors tells Rita of Connors's circumstances how Connors is reliving the day over and over again and manages to convince Rita of the truth with Connors's extensive knowledge of events to come, the lives of the Punxsutawney townspeople, and Rita herself. Connors opens Connors's heart to Rita, and Rita advice helps Connors to gradually find a goal for Connors's trapped life as a benefactor to others. Connors can not, in a single day, bring others to fulfill Connors's needs but Connors can achieve selfimprovement by educating himself on a daily basis. After seeing an elderly homeless man die, Connors vows that no one will die on man's day and performs many heroic services each and every repeating day, including performing the Heimlich maneuver on a choking man and saving a little boy who falls from a tree. However, man becomes despondent at being unable to save the homeless man, despite trying to get man medical care. When man demands to see the man's medical chart, a nurse tells man sometimes people just die. Not today, Connors replies, but Connors never manages to prevent chart. Though the film does not specify the number of repetitions, there is enough time for Connors to learn many complex skills, such as how to play jazz piano, speak French, sculpt ice, and memorize the life story of almost everyone in town. Connors also masters the art of flipping playing cards into an upturned hat, which Connors offhandedly suggests takes six months. Danny Rubin, who shares screenwriting credit with the director, the intent in the original script was for the timeframe of Connors'repeating days to be ambiguous, but longer than a single lifetime. The studio objected to this, asking that studio be reduced to two weeks. Director Harold Ramis tried to leave the timeframe loop ambiguous as how many times Connors relives February 2, but it is strongly speculated by Connors to be at least 10 years. Eventually, Connors enhances Connors's own human understanding which, in return, makes him an appreciated and beloved man in the town. Phil is able to befriend almost everyone Phil meets during the day, using Phil's experiences to save lives and help the townspeople. In the process, Phil gets closer to Rita. Phil crafts a report on the Groundhog Day celebration so eloquent that all the other stations turn their microphones to Phil. After the big Groundhog Day evening dance, Rita and Phil retire together to Phil's room. Elliott believe that if Rita's there, the cycle may be interrupted. there wakes the next morning in bed with Rita and finds the time loop is broken loop is now February 3. Phil is a different person than Phil was on February 1 and, after going outside, Phil and Rita talk about living in Punxsutawney together. Connors suggests We will rent to start. The closing song is Almost Like Being in Love from Brigadoon, a musical which also dealt with a village trapped in time.