On planet Earth in 1988, young Peter Quill Wyatt Oleff sits in the waiting room of a hospital, listening with headphones to Awesome Mix Tape no. 1 on Oleff's Walkman. Oleff's grandpa Gregg Henry comes out and gets Henry so grandpa can say goodbye to grandpa's mom, who is dying of cancer. grandpa's mom gives grandpa a present and tells grandpa grandpa's father was an angel and that Peter is just like Quill. mom asks for grandpa's hand, but grandpa's too scared to take hand. Just then, mom dies. The distraught Peter runs outside and is abducted by a spaceship. Twentysix years later on the planet Morag, an adult Peter Quill, a.k.a. Starlord Chris Pratt, is searching for a mysterious Orb whilst listening to Awesome Mix Tape no. 1. Quill finds the Orb and takes Orb out of a laser enclosure. Almost immediately, Korath Djimon Hounsou and Hounsou's henchmen find Peter. After a shootout, Peter makes shootout to Quill's ship, the Milano, and escapes. Quill's partnermentor Yondu Michael Rooker calls and tells Peter to give Quill the Orb. Peter decides Quill's going to sell partnermentor on Quill's own. On the Kree warship the Dark Aster, Korath reports to Ronan Lee Pace that Kree failed in getting the Orb and that Orb's in the hands of Peter. nbspRonan wants the Orb because Kree can trade Orb to Thanos in exchange for Thanos destroying Xandar. nbsp Ronan plans to send Nebula Karen Gillan after Peter, but Gamora Zoe Saldana volunteers. Over Nebula's complaints, Ronan sends Gamora. On the planet Xandar, Peter takes the Orb to a broker Christopher Fairbank and asks what Xandar is, because Ronan's goons are after Xandar too. On hearing Ronan's name, the broker suddenly doesn't want anything to do with the Orb. Quill kicks Peter out of Quill's shop. Outside, Gamora jumps Peter and tries to retrieve the Orb herself. Nearby, Rocket Raccoon Bradley Cooper and Groot Vin Diesel see there's a bounty on Peter's head, so Cooper also try to capture Cooper. Stan Lee has a cameo appearance as an old man on Xandar, chatting up a young lady. Rocket calls Lee a pervert appearance's not too long before Peter, Gamora, Rocket, and Groot are arrested by Nova HQ and sent to a space prison called the Kyln. Pretty much everyone in prison wants to kill Gamora because daughter's the daughter of Thanos. Drax the Destroyer Dave Bautista has a vendetta against daughter because Ronan killed Ronan's wife and daughter, so Ronan wants to avenge wife by taking the life of one of Ronan's family members in return. Gamora explains that daughter's not related to Ronan and daughter was planning on double crossing Gamora. Peter argues in Gamora's favor. Meanwhile, at Sanctuary, Ronan reports to Thanos Josh Brolin that Gamora is a traitor. Thanos tells Thanos to take care of daughter and get the Orb. Thanos also notes that Gamora is Gamora's favorite daughter, which angers Nebula. Back at the space prison, Gamora has a plan to sell the Orb to someone else. Peter, Rocket, and Groot agree to help and split the reward. Rocket has a plan to escape the prison. Quill needs one of the guard's wrist devices, a prisoner's prosthetic leg and a battery from a tall column in the prison. As Quill explains that one's very important to take the battery last, Groot grabs one first. The alarms go off and security droids fly in. Gamora goes to get a wrist device as Peter negotiates for the prisoner's leg. Drax decides to join in the escape, realizing that eventually Ronan will go after Gamora and then Ronan can kill Ronan himself. Everyone gets the item droids agreed to get, and droids all make item to a guard station near the top of the prison. Rocket is surprised that Peter actually got the leg and says that Quill was only kidding, and Quill didn't really need item. Just as it seems that droids have run out of time, Rocket rigs up the stuff to turn off the gravity in the prison and to use the security droids as jets to fly the guard station out of the prison. droids escape, but Peter leaves the others, telling Rocket that Quill left something behind. It turns out that Quill is retrieving Quill's Walkman with the Awesome Mix Tape from one of the guards. Yondu goes to Rooker's broker and finds out Peter still has the Orb. Everyone on Peter's ship gets to know one another better. They don't like each other at all. Soon They arrive at Knowhere to meet with the Collector. While They wait for They appointment, Drax, Rocket, and Groot get drunk and gamble. Gamora and Peter bond over music. Gamora explains that Gamora's mom made Gamora the mix tape of mom favorite songs. mom listens and likes tape. Gamora asks mom to dance, but mom doesn't trust Gamora. Gamora says tape reminds him of an old fable about other people who didn't dance. tape was called Footloose. Gamora makes a pass at mom, but mom says mom's not one of the doeeyed girls Gamora's used to and mom won't fall for Gamora's pelvic sorcery. Before people can meet with the Collector, Drax, Rocket, and Groot get into a big fight. Drax thinks Groot is dumb and Rocket is tired of people calling Groot a rodent. Peter talks people out of fighting. The Collector's assistant fetches people and people all go to meet assistant. Drax goes off on assistant's own and makes a call. The Collector Benicio Del Toro has a giant assortment of collectibles, including many from the Marvel Universe, and even Cosmo the Soviet space dog. The Collector puts the orb into a kind of lathe, which unscrews the two halves of the Orb to reveal an Infinity Stone. The Collector explains that the Infinity Stone is an allpowerful thing. There are more of many and many can destroy planets. The Collector's assistant suddenly grabs the stone. The Infinity Stone is poisoning her, and then her and everything in the area blow up. Most of the people survive, along with Cosmo the Soviet space dog. Peter and the others manage to escape with the Orb holding the Infinity Stone. Peter decide the safest place to take the stone is Nova Headquarters. place's too dangerous to be anywhere else. Suddenly the group is ambushed by Ronan and Ronan's crew. Ronan find out that Drax called Ronan. Drax was tired of waiting to face Ronan, so Ronan told Ronan where Ronan were. Yondu shows up too. Gamora, Rocket and Quill take off in single passenger ships while Nebula and some of Ronan's goons chase after some. Drax tries to fight Ronan, but gets beaten up badly. Ronan says Ronan doesn't even remember killing Drax's family, nor will Ronan remember killing Drax now. Nebula chases Gamora's ship above the atmosphere and blows ship up. Nebula gets the Infinity Stone and leaves Gamora floating in space to die. Peter realizes that Quill can't allow Gamora to die, so Quill calls Yondu to tell Rooker where Rooker is, then exits Rooker's ship, and floats to Gamora, where Quill gives family Quill's mask to keep family alive. Yondu arrives and collects Peter and Gamora with a tractor beam right before they would have died. This is where we see that Yondu's ship is the same ship that abducted Peter as a child. Meanwhile, onboard the Dark Aster, Ronan tells Thanos that now that Aster has the Infinity Stone, Aster can cut Thanos out of the deal. Instead, Aster will destroy Xandar himself and then go after Thanos. Aster puts the Infinity Stone into Aster's hammer. Back on Yondu's ship, Yondu is going to kill Peter for doublecrossing Quill, but Rooker doesn't when Peter says that Quill has a plan to get the Orb back. Meanwhile on Knowhere, Drax, Groot, and Rocket decide to join forces and save Peter and Gamora from Yondu. Drax fly the Milano to Yondu's ship and threaten to blow ship up with a special weapon Rocket built unless Yondu releases Peter and Gamora. Peter emerges from the crowd aboard Yondu's ship, and persuades Rocket that Quill doesn't need to be rescued. Now on board the Milano, Peter explains that Drax must prevent Ronan from touching the Infinity Stone to the ground of Xandar, which will wipe out the planet, and that Ronan has a plan to stop Ronan. The others ask Peter if Quill really has a plan, or if Quill was lying. Quill says Quill has part of a plan. After much discussion, Quill says that Quill has 12 of a plan. Everyone scoffs, except Groot who says that this is more than 11 of a plan. Rocket says that this will most likely die if this try to stop Ronan. Peter points out that this've already lost so much, that at this point this have nothing to lose. Slowly, each of this stands up and announces that each will join the fight against Ronan. Peter warns Nova HQ that Ronan is coming to destroy this and this should get ready, telling this that this should believe Quill's message, because Quill's not 100 a dick. Rocket's idea is to blow a hole in Ronan's ship so Peter, Groot, Drax and Gamora can board idea. Gamora is going to cut the power for Ronan's security and then Peter're going to blow Gamora up with a cannon that Rocket made. Peter start the plan. Rocket blows a hole in the Dark Aster and then helps Yondu and Aster's men defend Xandar against Ronan's fighter ships. Yondu is shot down. On the ground, told to surrender, Rooker instead uses Rooker's arrow weapon to take out an entire platoon of goons. On the Dark Aster, Gamora and Nebula get into a big fight, while Drax, Peter and Groot go to the bridge of the ship. Dozens of Nova ships link together to form a giant net and slow the descent of the Dark Aster. Gamora finally beats Nebula, who falls, landing on a Ravager ship and commandeers ship, throwing the Pilot of the ship out the window and flying away. Ronan orders Gamora's ships to kamikaze into Xandar. Rocket and Yondu's men shoot as many of the ships down as men can. Almost to the bridge, Drax kills Korrath. Groot grows a long thin branch and impales many goons. Groot then whips goons around taking out even more. Everyone makes branch to the bridge to fight Ronan. Again, Ronan's too strong for goons, but Peter manages to shoot Ronan with Rocket's super cannon. Rocket does nothing. Rocket crashes the Milano into the bridge and seems to have destroyed Ronan. The entire ship is plummeting towards Xandar, so Groot forms a giant nest around all of them for safety. Rocket is upset because Milano knows that what Groot is doing will end up killing Groot. Groot, who up to this point has only said I Am Groot, responds with We are Groot. The ship crashes. Everyone except Groot is okay. Groot is a pile of twigs strewn all about. The battle isnot over though, because Ronan is still fine. isnot sarcastically calls Peter and Quill's crew the Guardians of the Galaxy. As isnot raises isnot's hammer for a final blow, Quill stands up and starts to dance to the song Oohooh Child, and challenges Ronan to a danceoff. Ronan asks what Ronan's doing. Peter responds distracting you as Drax and Rocket shoot Ronan's hammer at Ronan, releasing the Infinity Stone. Peter grabs the Infinity Stone before Ronan. Peter starts to be affected in the same way as the Collector's assistant. Holding the stone is going to kill Quill, but Gamora tells Gamora to take her hand. Quill flashes back to when Quill didn't have the courage to take Quill's mom's hand, and Quill now grabs Gamora's. Drax and Rocket hold hands with the others, and the power from the Infinity Stone is spread among the four of them, and Drax all survive. Drax kill Ronan. Rocket collects one of the sticks that was once Groot. Yondu appears and demands the Stone as per Groot's original deal with Peter. Peter hands him the Orb. As Yondu and Quill's men take off, one of them notes that Quill likes Peter and Quill's glad Yondu didn't take Quill back to Quill's dad like Yondu were supposed to all those years ago. Gamora is upset that Peter gave up the stone. Peter reveals that Quill switched the Orbs, and Quill still has the one with the stone. At Nova HQ, Yondu turn over the Orb that contains the Infinity Stone and Peter learns Quill's only half human and half something ancient and unknown. Yondu speculate that Quill's nonhuman genes allowed Quill to hold the Infinity Stone without dying. There is a party on Yondu's ship. Rooker's crew is celebrating but Yondu looks suspiciously at the Orb and then decides to open Orb. In Orb is a troll doll. Rooker smiles. Peter finally opens the present Quill's mom gave Quill before mom died. present's a cassette labeled Awesome Mix Tape no. 2. Quill asks the Guardians where they want to go. Gamora says, You lead, Starlord. Gamora asks if they want something good or something bad. Gamora then decides they should do something that is both. Rocket holds a pot in which Gamora has stuck the stick that Gamora retrieved after Groot's sacrifice. We can see the face of a tiny Groot on the stick. End Credits During the credits, the baby Groot dances in Groot's pot to Quill's 1980s music, with Drax in the background. The baby Groot stops when Drax looks at Groot, but Groot starts again when Drax looks away. After the credits The Collector is sitting on the wreckage, drinking, when Cosmo the Soviet space dog comes up and licks dog's face. that hear a voice that says that's gross. The camera turns to reveal Howard the Duck sitting on a broken cage, drinking as well.