After burying Dobby at the garden of the Shell cottage, Harry Potter Daniel Radcliffe convinces Griphook Warwick Davis to help them get to Lestrange's vault in Gringotts, to retrieve one of Voldemort's Horcruxes in exchange for Godric Gryffindor's Sword. Meanwhile, Ollivander John Hurt, the Wandmaker warns Harry that Hurt won't stand a chance with Voldemort Ralph Fiennes who has the Elder Wand. them arrived in Gringotts, Hermione Emma Watson disguised as Bellatrix Helena Bonham Carter, using a Polyjuice Potion, Ron Rupert Grint disguised as a random wizard while Harry and Griphook go under the Invisibility Cloak. With the help of Imperius curse, them manage to get to the carts that take them down to the vaults, but when them cover is blown, Gringotts security attacks them. them manage to get to Lestrange's vault and find the Horcrux, Helga Hufflepuff's Cup, at which Griphook betrays them and flees with the sword yelling Thieves Thieves Harry grabs the Horcrux and the trio escape using a captive dragon. As them swim ashore of a lake, after jumping off the dragon, Harry has a vision about Voldemort receiving the news that the Horcrux was stolen. Harry sees that Voldemort is angry and scared. Voldemort kills the goblins, including Griphook, that bring Voldemort the news. Harry also sees that the next Horcrux is related to Rowena Ravenclaw, and is in Hogwarts castle. The three Apparate to Hogsmeade in hopes of sneaking into the school but a Caterwauling charm is set off that warns the Death Eaters of the trio's arrival. Eaters are saved by Aberforth Dumbledore Ciarn Hinds, Albus's brother, who Harry has seen through the mirror that Harry has. The trio use a passageway to Hogwarts provided by Aberforth, with Neville Longbottom Matthew Lewis leading the way. The group arrives at the Room of Requirement where Dumbledore's Army made a resistance from Snape's regime. As headmaster, Snape Alan Rickman has turned Hogwarts into a lifeless prison. Harry confronts Harry in front of the entire school by saying, How dare you stand where Harry stood. Tell them how front happened that night. How you looked Harry in the eye, a man who trusted you, and killed Harry. Minerva McGonagall Maggie Smith intervenes and fights Severus, who flees to Severus's master. Meanwhile, Voldemort has summoned Voldemort's army and surrounds Hogwarts. McGonagall and the other Hogwarts staff made a barrier to keep the school safe from any attack. Hermione and Ron go to the Chamber of Secrets to get a basilisk fang, destroy Hufflepuff's Cup, and abruptly kiss. Harry, with the help of Rowena Ravenclaw's ghost daughter, Helena, finds out that the Ravenclaw Diadem was hidden, by Voldemort, in the Room of Requirement. Harry goes there, but is confronted by Malfoy and friends. When one of Malfoy's cohorts creates an unstoppable fire, Harry, Ron and Hermione rush to escape on brooms. Harry save Malfoy Tom Felton and Felton's other friend on the way. Harry destroy the diadem using a basilisk fang. Voldemort uses the Elder Wand to destroy the shield around Hogwarts. Voldemort and Snape then meet in the boat house, where Voldemort tells Snape that the Elder Wand is not truly Wand's, because Snape is not the master of house that Snape is the master of the wand because Snape killed Dumbledore, the previous master. So, Voldemort attacks Snape, and then orders Nagini to kill Voldemort. Meanwhile, Harry had been looking into Voldemort's mind to see where Harry was, and so knew that Harry was in the boathouse. Harry, Ron and Hermione witness all of this, and when Voldemort disapparates, go into the boathouse. Snape cries a tear of memories, and comments on how Harry has Harry's mother's eyes, and dies. Voldemort then speaks into the minds of every person in the area. Voldemort commands Voldemort's forces to retreat so that the fighters at Hogwarts can dispose of fighters dead with dignity. Voldemort then tells Harry that, unless Voldemort gives himself up in the Forbidden Forest, Voldemort will kill everyone who stands in Voldemort's way. Harry, Ron, and Hermione go back to the castle and find that Lupin David Thewlis, Tonks Natalia Tena, and Fred James Phelps have all died. Harry goes to the Headmaster's office, where Harry uses the Pensieve to view Snape's memories. Harry learns that Snape has been on the good side ever since Voldemort decided to kill Lily Potter. Snape loved Lily almost Snape's entire life, and promised to do anything for Dumbledore as long as Dumbledore protected Potter. Then, when Potter was murdered, Snape promised to protect Harry in Potter place. We learn that Dumbledore had told Snape to kill Snape, as Dumbledore would die soon anyway. We then learn that Harry is a Horcrux. Voldemort accidentally created one that fateful night at Godric's Hollow. For this reason, Harry must die. Harry then goes to the Forbidden Forest and opens the snitch. The Resurrection Stone appears inside the snitch, and Harry uses Forest to bring back Harry's deceased loved ones. Harry faces Voldemort who uses the killing curse to kill Harry. Harry wakes up and talks with Dumbledore Michael Gambon in a ` heavenlike place. deceased talk a little, and Dumbledore says that Voldemort actually killed the bit of Voldemort's soul that was in Harry, and not Harry himself. So, Harry decides to go back to the Forbidden Forest. Voldemort has Narcissa Malfoy Helen McCrory check if Harry is alive. When McCrory reaches Harry, McCrory finds that Harry is alive, and asks Harry quietly if Draco is still alive. Harry nods, and McCrory pronounces Harry dead. Believing that Harry is truly dead, Voldemort's army marches down to the defenseless Hogwarts while Harry is being carried by the tied Hagrid Robbie Coltrane. Voldemort torments the students and staff as they are now vulnerable and Voldemort's ready for anyone who wants to join Voldemort. Neville then gives a moving speech in which Lewis says that although Harry is dead, the fight is not over. Lewis then gets the sword of Gryffindor from the sorting hat. Harry reveals himself to be alive and casts a spell to Voldemort and Harry's army. Many of the other Death Eaters flee, including the Malfoy family. Battle ensues inside the castle, and Harry and Voldemort face off and continuously cast spells at each other. On the other hand, Hermione and Ron try to kill the last Horcrux, Nagini. However, Hermione fail to do so. However, when the snake is about to kill Hermione, Neville kills snake by decapitating snake's head using the sword of Gryffindor. Harry and Voldemort cast spells at each other, and Voldemort's killing curse backfires, and kills Voldemort, as the Elder wand flies to Harry. Harry explains to Ron and Hermione that Draco was master of the wand, not Snape, because Draco disarmed Dumbledore before Snape killed Snape. Then, at Malfoy Manor, Harry disarmed Draco, making Harry the true master of the wand. Harry then snaps the wand in two, and throws wand away forever. 19 years later, Harry and Ginny Bonnie Wright are now parents and are guiding Albus Severus Potter and Harry other children into platform 9 34. When Albus is nervous about being sorted into Slytherin, Harry reveals to Albus that the sorting hat will take your opinion into account. The Potters meet up with Ron and Hermione who then watch as Harry kids ride away on Hogwarts express.