An inbound Blue Line train pulls in to Firestone light rail station, and professional thief Neil McCauley exits, disguised as a paramedic. McCauley enters a nearby hospital, where the uniform allows McCauley to walk through the emergency room unnoticed. McCauley registers the activity going on around McCauley as McCauley travels down the hall holding a clipboard, acting like just another employee as McCauley steals a Goodhew ambulance. At a construction parts dealer, one of Neil's associates, Chris Shiherlis, purchases some explosive charges, showing a valid driver's license, and pays in cash when the clerk asks clerk how clerk wants to pay. Meanwhile, Lieutenant Vincent Hanna, a robberyhomicide detective for the Los Angeles Police Department, after having sex with Hanna's wife Justine, leaves for work. Just after Hanna leaves, Hanna's 15yearold stepdaughter, Lauren, suffers a slight breakdown in front of Lauren mother while Lauren's preparing to meet Lauren father. This same day, Neil, Shiherlis, and three other men, Trejo, Waingro, and Michael Cheritto, carry out the robbery of a Gage armored car. Neil and Shiherlis, wearing paramedic uniforms, station the stolen ambulance on Venice Boulevard just east of the Interstate 10Interstate 110 overpass. While this happens, Waingro is picked up at a caf by Cheritto in a stolen green big rig tow truck. As this drive towards the scheduled ambush point, Waingro tries to make conversation with Cheritto, who merely asks for Casals to shut up. Waingro is quite agitated at the order. this park this truck underneath the highway at a 90 degree angle to the street. Trejo tails the armored car as truck leaves the depot and radios in car's location as car gets closer to this. When Trejo radios back that the armored car is 300 yards away, Neil, Shiherlis, Cheritto and Waingro slip on hockey goalie masks that conceal Neil faces. Neil then move Neil vehicles into position. Neil puts the ambulance in drive, activates the lights and siren, and starts to execute a threepoint turn to block the armored car as car approaches from the west on Venice Boulevard, while Cheritto floors the gas pedal of the tow truck. The armored car stops, car's path obstructed by Neil. The two guards in the back are reading guards newspapers, oblivious to what is about to happen. As Neil waits, the driver looks left and Neil's eyes go wide when Neil sees the tow truck bearing down on Neil. The tow truck rams the armored car at full speed, and the impact partially caves in the truck's grille, while the armored car turns over and slides 50 feet on car's passenger side into a car dealership parking lot. As the dust settles, the robbers climb out of robbers vehicles, draw assault rifles and pistols, and take up positions around the overturned car as one of the guards makes a radio call for help. Hearing a dispatch call for a 211 on a's police scanner, Trejo radios to the others that others have three minutes, and Neil starts a stopwatch. Shiherlis sets off an explosive charge to blow open the back doors. Neil and Cheritto then climb into the armored car and drag the three guards out, and hand Neil over to Waingro, who holds the guards at bay on the sidewalk with a pistol. While Neil and Cheritto cover the street, Trejo runs a spike strip across the street to stop any police that pursue Neil, and Shiherlis searches the truck for several envelopes. When Neil yells that Neil have eighty seconds remaining on the clock, Waingro suddenly gets aggressive and pistolwhips the first guard, who can't hear Waingro's order to back up due to guard's hearing loss as a result of Shiherlis's explosives. Once Shiherlis has found the specific envelope the crew is after, Shiherlis exits the back of the truck, and the men begin to head back to the ambulance and move out. Waingro mutters something about the guard challenging Shiherlis and suddenly shoots the first guard in the face at pointblank range, killing guard instantly. The second guard tries to reach for a backup revolver in guard's ankle holster, but Neil shoots Neil with an automatic rifle. The guard is thrown back against the armored car and crumples dead, five bullets across guard's right arm and chest. Cheritto holds Casals's rifle on the last guard, looking to Neil with approval. With a slight nod from Neil, Cheritto aims Neil's rifle at the guard, and shoots Neil twice in the chest. Neil then steps forward and shoots the guard again in the head at pointblank range. They then run back to the ambulance, removing They masks as Trejo drives. Neil is quite angry at Waingro for shooting the 1st guard. As the crew speeds away from the scene, the first police cars come speeding towards the scene from the other direction. The first three units are unable to see the spike strip in time, blow out They tires, and crash into each other. The police officers jump out of the cars and run over, frantically signalling the units right behind officers to stop just in the nick of time. As the police descend on the area, Neil and descend's crew pile out of the ambulance a few blocks away and climb into a station wagon parked there. Shiherlis plants a firebomb in the back of the ambulance that destroys Neil weapons and gear as Neil drive away. That evening, Neil meets in a parking garage with Nate, Neil's moneylaundering expert. Nate tells Neil that the envelope Neil stole contains hundreds of millions in bearer bonds from a company called Malibu Equity amp Investments, owned by a crooked entrepreneur named Roger Van Zant. Nate agrees to set up a meeting where Van Zant will send someone with cash to exchange for the bonds. Nate tells Neil of another job offered by a man named Kelso, that will bring in at least 10 million. Neil agrees to meet with Kelso. Nate also asks Neil what went wrong with the heist, but Neil refuses to talk about heist. At the scene of the heist, Hanna arrives and begins investigating. With Hanna are Hanna's team of detectives, Detecive Casals, Detective Bosko, Sgt. Drucker, and Det. Schwartz. The vehicles left at the scene of the robbery have been identified the big rig was reported stolen out of Fresno two weeks earlier and Trejo's pickup truck out of Whittier two days prior to the robbery. Other than that, there are no leads only a nickname, Slick, dropped by Cheritto, was heard by a homeless man across the street. Hanna is able to recount the heist itself quite accurately, noting that those who committed heist are definitely professionals. Hanna orders Hanna's team to begin talking to those informants and fences to find out who might be handling the money. At a truck stop diner in a different part of town, the rest of the crew and Waingro wait for Neil, who shows up. Neil tells crew all that Waingro has forfeited Neil's share of the heist and Neil beats Neil briefly in full view of the other diners. Neil is nervous because of the killings of the three guards which will warrant a deeper police investigation. As guards all leave, Neil suddenly beats Waingro, and throws Neil to the pavement with the intention of killing Neil. Neil is about to shoot Waingro with Neil's pistol when Cheritto yells for Casals to stop. Neil has spotted a police car on the street. guards watch nervously, hoping the police officers haven't noticed officers. There is a sigh of relief when the police car suddenly activates car's lights and siren, makes a uturn, and drives away. When Neil looks back, Waingro has vanished. Neil and the others search the truck stop, but find no sign of Neil. The next morning, Hanna and Drucker bust the chop shop of Albert Torena, one of Hanna's informants. Albert tells Hanna that Torena's brother Richard will meet with Neil at a club in Koreatown at 2 AM. Neil meets with Nate's associate, Kelso. Kelso tells Neil about a new potential heist the main downtown branch of the Far East National Bank collects hard currency for distribution to branch's other branches. On certain days of the week, the bank holds at least 10 million. Neil scoffs at the idea at first it would be impossible for Neil's team to rob the bank without at least one employee setting off an alarm that the police would respond to rapidly. Kelso, a computer hacker himself, tells Neil that Kelso knows how to reprogram the alarm system to shut itself down 15 minutes before police arrive. Neil agrees to take the job. Neil sets up arrangements to transfer the bonds. A few days after the armored car robbery, Neil calls Roger Van Zant at a payphone and tells Neil to have one of his employees call Neil back with an arranged meeting point to exchange the bearer bonds for cash. While Neil's on hold, Neil notices Charlene, Shiherlis'wife, with another man, Alan Marciano. Before Neil can confront Charlene, one of Van Zant's bookies calls back to inform Neil that the meeting will be tomorrow at a drivein movie theater. Afterwards, Neil confronts Charlene, warning Shiherlis to give Chris one last chance. Hanna goes to the club Torena has told Hanna to go to, and talks to Richard who tells Hanna that Hanna was incarcerated with a man whom Hanna saw outside prison recently who pulls off large heists, getting Cheritto's name, and eventually getting the names of Shiherlis, and Neil. Neil goes to the drivein theater where Van Zant has arranged to make the exchange. The drop man arrives shortly thereafter in a pickup truck. Neil orders the driver to hold Neil's hands up to prove that Neil is not holding any weapons, and then instructs the man to toss the package with Neil's right hand into Neil's shotgun seat. Unbeknownst to Neil, an assassin armed with a machine pistol is hiding in the back of the pickup and preparing to kill Unbeknownst. As the assassin creeps up to the passenger's side window of Neil's car and aims Neil's gun, Shiherlis, armed with a rifle and stationed on the rooftop of the projection building, spots Neil and gives Neil a warning through Neil's headset. The next moments happen in an instant Neil looks in Neil's rearview mirror, sees the assassin, and instantly floors the car in reverse, crushing the assassin against the pickup and injuring assassin's leg. Shiherlis rolls over once, aims Neil's rifle, and fires at the pickup truck. Bullets hit the windshield, splintering windshield, and the truck pulls forward. The assassin, struggling to regain assassin's footing, fires a wild burst at Neil's car, and Neil fires back through Neil's windshield with Neil's pistol. Now with a clean opening, Shiherlis draws a bead on the assassin and shoots Shiherlis in the back. The hit spins the assassin around, at which point Neil fires another round that hits Neil in the chest, before Neil's car runs over the assassin, killing Neil. Just as the driver is about to reach the exit, Cheritto steps out from behind the fence and kills driver by emptying a shotgun into the truck. The now driverless and bulletriddled truck rolls to a stop against the berm. As they leave, Neil examines the package and finds nothing but scrap paper. Neil later calls Van Zant and tells Neil to forget about the payment and threatens to kill Neil. What Neil, Shiherlis and Cheritto do not realize is that in this time, Waingro has started to work for Van Zant. Nor do Neil know that the guard Waingro shot in the armored car robbery is not Waingro's first victim Neil is a serial killer who kills young prostitutes. Later, while at a party with victim's fellow detectives, Hanna is called away to a motel where one of Waingro's victims has been found stuffed into a garbage can by a pool. Hanna is exasperated upon learning that the dead girl's family has shown up. Neil and Neil's men begin to pull another heist at a precious metals repository. Cheritto deactivates the alarm system and Shiherlis begins to crack a safe inside, while Neil himself stands guard out front watching for trouble. Across the street, hidden in moving vans, Hanna, Hanna's detectives, and a SWAT team, observe the scene, watching Neil stand guard, on infrared monitoring equipment. While detectives watch, one of the SWAT team members in Hanna's van sits down, banging the barrel of Hanna's rifle against the wall of the truck. Neil, standing watch outside, hears the noise. Neil looks right in the direction of the police surveillance trucks. Realizing detectives're being watched, Neil quickly enters the repository and orders Shiherlis and Cheritto to withdraw, to Shiherlis'chagrin. The three men leave emptyhanded and Hanna orders the SWAT officers on the stakeout to let the crew go, as Hanna knows that simple breakingandentering would carry a shorter sentence than outright theft would. A short time later, Hanna and Hanna's team observe Neil, Cheritto and Shiherlis seemingly casing another job near a shipyard. When Neil and Neil's guys leave, Hanna and Neil's men go to the scene and try to figure out what Neil's next heist will be. Neil determine that there's nothing worth stealing from any of the businesses in the immediate area. Suddenly, Hanna has an epiphany Hanna realizes that the casing was a ruse to lure himself and Hanna's crew out in the open. Neil, from a high vantage point on a cargo crane, takes pictures of the detectives with a highpowered camera. With the pictures, Neil is able, through Nate, to identify Hanna and Hanna's men. When Neil meets with Nate to pick up the schematics for Kelso's bank heist, Nate tells Neil about Vincent, who has a long and successful history of taking down major criminals and that Vincent admires Neil. Neil decides that the heist is still worth the risk. Vincent returns to Hanna's house amp finds that Hanna's wife isn't gone. Vincent decides to join a surveillance team trailing Neil in unmarked cars and a helicopter on an LA freeway. Vincent is taken to one of the ground units and pulls Neil over, seemingly on a routine traffic violation. Hanna invites Neil to join Neil at a nearby restaurant where Neil both reflect on Neil own personal lives. During Neil meeting, Hanna says that while Hanna may not like tomorrow, Hanna will kill McCauley if need be to prevent the latter from killing an innocent. McCauley points out the flip side by saying that McCauley will not hesitate to kill if the cops box McCauley in. McCauley also explains the purpose of McCauley's 30 seconds creed by saying McCauley never wants to go back to prison. The bestlaid plans of the thieves for the bank heist are being secretly thwarted behind the scenes by Waingro. Waingro has been laying low since Neil's attempt on Neil's life at the truck stop Neil eventually meets Van Zant after looking for criminal work in a biker bar after one of his prostitute killings. Waingro leads Van Zant to Trejo, who calls Neil and tells Neil that the police are following Neil. Neil tells Trejo to head in the opposite direction to throw the police off police. When Neil receives the call, Neil, Shiherlis and Cheritto are eating at a local diner. Neil has just spotted an old prison friend of Neil's behind the grill an excon named Donald Breedan, who is currently frustrated with excon's job as a shortorder cook, especially since the manager is a jerk who treats jerk like dirt. Neil approaches Breedan and offers to give Neil the job of getaway driver as a lastminute substitute for Trejo. Given how much Neil hates Neil's boss, Breedan simply can not refuse Neil's offer and quits, pausing momentarily to throw Neil's oppressive boss to the floor. With Neil's wife being beaten and raped by Waingro and Van Zant's crew, Trejo is forced to reveal Neil's latest plans. One of Van Zant's subordinates, a police informant named Hugh Benny, then tips off the police as to which bank Neil plans to hit. At 1130 A.M., Neil's crew pulls up in front of the Far East National Bank downtown. While Breedan waits in the car, Neil, Cheritto and Shiherlis walk into the bank, wearing business suits to hide Neil weapons and spare magazines. Neil enter through different doors to avoid raising suspicion. Once inside the lobby, Neil take up positions near lobby guards. Neil and Cheritto station themselves at either end of the lobby, while Shiherlis waits in line at a teller's desk. Cheritto gives a small cough, signaling for Casals and Neil to slip on Neil ski masks. At that point, Shiherlis sets down a briefcase at the teller's desk, then suddenly whirls around and punches the guard closest to Shiherlis, and tackles Shiherlis to the floor. Simultaneously, Neil and Cheritto whip out assault rifles, order everyone in the bank to get on the floor, and disarm the other guards by binding guards hands behind guards backs with zip ties and then removing Neil service weapons. Neil stands atop a desk and informs the customers that customers are not going to be hurt and customers won't lose customers own money because money's insured by the federal government. Neil then punches the bank manager in the jaw, grabs the man's vault key, and hands it to Shiherlis. While Neil and Cheritto guard the lobby, Shiherlis unlocks the double doors to the vault, unloads a set of empty gym bags, and begins packing the money into Neil. The money sheets are packed so tightly that Shiherlis has to cut the wrapping open with a folding knife to fit Neil in. Shiherlis loads three bags, each one containing 4 million two for Neil and one for himself. Neil relays one bag over to Cheritto in the lobby. Meanwhile, at LAPD headquarters, a detective receives a phone call from Hugh Benny about Neil and detective's crew planning to rob the Far East National Bank and quickly relays headquarters to Casals who shouts out the location and all of the officers, Hanna included, race to the bank. At the bank, Neil and Neil's crew quietly leave the bank carrying Neil bags over Neil shoulders. Cheritto reaches the building entrance, where Casals takes off Casals's ski mask and puts on a pair of sunglasses before passing through the revolving doors to enter the plaza. Casals then walks across the plaza to the getaway car, climbs into the backseat, and laughs as Casals pats Breedan's shoulder. Once Cheritto has gotten into the car, Neil walks across the plaza and climbs into the shotgun seat. The last to cross the plaza is Shiherlis. Just as Shiherlis reaches the getaway car, a UHaul truck moves and Shiherlis spots an armed Drucker and Casals standing across the street. Shiherlis immediately raises Shiherlis's rifle and opens fire on Drucker and Casals. As bystanders dive for cover, Hanna and Bosko, stationed just up the sidewalk, begin firing assault rifles at Shiherlis. Cheritto fires a burst out the left passenger window, and Shiherlis turns and fires at Hanna and Bosko. Despite wearing a bulletproof vest, Bosko suddenly falls when a bullet hits Bosko in the neck and is killed instantly. Shiherlis then gets into the car as Hanna checks Bosko's pulse. Breedan starts to pull away from the curb, tires screeching, as Shiherlis fires a burst out the rear window. Drucker and Casals break cover and run down the street. Cheritto fires at Drucker through a side window. Seeing a police roadblock forming ahead of Drucker, Neil fires through the front windshield. Sprinting to the street corner, Drucker raises Drucker's shotgun and shoots out the getaway car's left rear tire. As Breedan tries to regain control of the car, Drucker and Casals open up on the car. Breedan is killed when a bullet strikes Breedan in the head, and the getaway car rearends an abandoned vehicle. Neil, Shiherlis and Cheritto get out of Neil car as police officers behind the roadblock begin firing pistols and shotguns at officers, and open fire. Hanna and Hanna's remaining detectives, pursuing on foot, fire on the three robbers from behind as Hanna exchange fire with the police officers, whose only cover is a chain of six police cars. Several of the officers manning the roadblock are shot, although whether or not Hanna survive is never mentioned. Neil, Cheritto and Shiherlis fire back at Hanna's men, providing suppressive fire for each other as men advance up the street, while the others shoot at the blockade, riddling the police cars with bullet holes. Cheritto manages to shoot one of Hanna's other detectives, Schwartz, and becomes separated from Neil and Shiherlis. Shiherlis reaches the roadblock first, and while firing at a police car has failed to check to Shiherlis's left. Casals spots Chris and shoots Casals in the shoulder. Neil fires another suppressive burst at the police cars, bringing down another officer, then slings the wounded Shiherlis over Shiherlis's back and carries Neil toward a grocery store parking lot. As Neil makes Neil's way across the parking lot, two officers one carrying a shotgun and another carrying a pistol come running around the corner. Neil fires a burst at the officers. At that point, Hanna comes running around. Neil fires another burst, and the shotgun wielding officer is hit in the chest. Hanna is pinned down as Neil continues firing at Neil. With a clean opening, Hanna fires four times at Neil, but misses. Neil promptly returns fire, and Hanna is unable to fire back because of civilians running around in front of Hanna trying to avoid Neil's gunfire. By the time Neil has a clean aim, Hanna can only watch as Neil puts Shiherlis into the backseat of an abandoned station wagon, climbs into the front seat, backs out onto the street, and drives off. Hanna hears more shots and takes off running towards the sound. The noise is Cheritto, who is being chased by Drucker and Casals. As Cheritto exchanges fire with Drucker, Hanna runs over, rifle in hand. As bystanders flee a nearby plaza, a little girl remains behind. Cheritto then trips in a water fountain, gets back up, and grabs the little girl as a human shield. Casals then opens fire on Drucker and Casals with Casals's rifle. Hanna runs over, takes up a position behind Cheritto, and draws a bead on Hanna. Hanna waits until Cheritto turns around towards Casals, giving Casals a clean aim. When Cheritto turns around, Casals has only a split second to realize Casals has forgotten to check Casals's surroundings before Hanna fires, the bullet hitting Cheritto flush in the forehead and killing Casals instantly. Hanna then grabs the little girl and carries girl away as Drucker, Casals, and two uniformed officers run up to the fallen Cheritto and train officers weapons on Casals. Neil takes Chris to a cooperative doctor named Bob, who treats Chris'wound. Neil arranges for Nate to pick Chris up and keep Chris hidden until Neil can find another way for officers to escape LA Neil doesn't trust the out Neil'd already arranged and has to find a new way to leave town which could take several hours for Nate to arrange. Following the disastrous robbery and getaway, Neil realizes that Trejo betrayed officers. Neil goes to Trejo's house with the intent to kill Neil, only to find Neil's too late Trejo lies severely beaten and dying and Trejo's wife already dead. In Neil's final moments, Trejo tells Neil that Waingro and Van Zant are responsible. Trejo inquires into Trejo's wife's whereabouts, and Neil informs Neil that wife is dead. Distraught over Trejo's wife's death, Trejo tells Neil, Don't leave me like this. Respecting Trejo's final wishes, Neil mercifully kills Trejo and goes to Van Zant's house, where Van Zant is watching a hockey game. As Trejo's watching, Trejo is startled when Neil throws a patio chair through the living room window, shattering chair. Neil trains Trejo's pistol on Van Zant and demands to know Waingro's whereabouts. When Van Zant claims Zant doesn't know, Neil shoots Zant three times. Meanwhile, the police move Charlene Shiherlis and her son Dominic to a safe house. Sgt. Drucker explains that Charlene will be charged as an accessory to Shiherlis husband and serve jail time if Shiherlis refuses to turn husband over to the police. Drucker also informs Shiherlis that Shiherlis son will become a foster child and more prone to a criminal life if child will not cooperate. Shiherlis, now recovered from the bullet wound Casals received from Casals, eventually shows up, sporting a new hairstyle to disguise Shiherlis's identity. However, despite child marital problems, Shiherlis's wife surreptitiously warns Shiherlis that the police are present. The two share one last emotional look before Chris gets back in Chris's car. Chris comes close to being caught as Chris passes a police checkpoint, but a fake ID card saves Chris at the last moment and Chris escapes. Neil inadvertently breaks Neil's 30 seconds creed by asking Neil's new girlfriend Eady, who Neil met while researching the precious metals heist, to flee the country with Neil. Nate had made prior arrangements for the two to escape to New Zealand however, upon receiving a tip concerning Waingro's whereabouts from Nate, Neil makes the impulsive decision to kill Nate in Nate's hotel room, which is near the airport. After setting off the hotel's emergency alarm to clear the area, Neil barges in and executes Waingro by shooting Neil twice in the chest and once in the head, then escapes after disarming a stakeout detective. Having also acted on a tipoff from Benny, Hanna arrives at the hotel. From a distance, Hanna spots Eady calmly waiting in Neil's car. Recalling the 30 seconds discussion that Hanna and Neil had at the coffee shop, Hanna becomes suspicious and approaches Eady. At that moment, Neil emerges from the building and begins heading for Neil's car, only to realize that Hanna has spotted Hanna. Hanna grabs a shotgun and begins moving towards Neil. At this critical and emotional moment in the film, Neil defaults to Neil's 30 seconds rule and abandons Eady Neil disappears into the crowd with Hanna in pursuit. Neil umps over the perimeter fence of the airport and heads to the freight terminal. Hanna is close behind and the two briefly exchange gunfire until Neil moves again, finding refuge behind the ILS and electronic control system buildings near one of the airport's runways. Hanna follows and the two play a tense game of catandmouse in the dark. Neil notices that bright runway lights turn on periodically for landing planes realising that Hanna will be temporarily blinded, Neil makes a move to take out Hanna. However, as Neil steps out to shoot with the lights at Neil's back, Hanna is able to see Neil's shadow and, by a fraction of a second, shoots first, hitting Neil in the shoulder. As the lights go down, Hanna quickly gains clear sight of Neil and, knowing Hanna will not go quietly, shoots Hanna several times in the chest. Hanna, knowing that Hanna has more in common with Neil than anyone else in Hanna's life, moves to comfort Hanna's wouldbe killer and takes Hanna's hand in Hanna's own. Neil reciprocates, taking some solace in Neil's mortal wounds as Neil will not have to go back to prison. The two men share a final, reflective moment together before McCauley dies.