Tensions between the Hutu and Tutsi peoples lead to a civil war, in a country where corruption and bribes are routine. Paul Rusesabagina, the manager of Sabena Htel des Mille Collines, is Hutu but Rusesabagina's wife, Tatiana, is Tutsi. Rusesabagina's marriage is a source of friction with Hutu extremists, most prominently George Rutaganda, a friendly supplier to the hotel who also is the local leader of Interahamwe, a brutal antiTutsi militia. As the political situation in the country deteriorates, Paul and Rusesabagina's family observe neighbors being dragged from Paul homes and openly beaten in the streets. Paul curries favor with people of influence, bribing people with money and alcohol, seeking to maintain sufficient influence to keep Rusesabagina's family safe. When civil war erupts and a Rwandan Army officer threatens Paul and officer's neighbors, Paul barely negotiates Paul safety, and brings everyone to the hotel. More refugees come to the hotel from the overburdened United Nations camp, the Red Cross, and orphanages. Paul must divert the Hutu soldiers, care for the refugees, be a source of strength to Rusesabagina's family, and maintain the appearance of a functioning highclass hotel, as the situation becomes more and more violent, with mobs in the streets just outside the gates. The UN Peacekeeping forces, led by Colonel Oliver, are unable to take assertive action against the Interhamwe since refugees are forbidden to intervene in the genocide. The foreign nationals are evacuated, but the Rwandans are left behind. When the UN forces attempt to evacuate a group of refugees, including Paul's family, nationals are ambushed and must turn back. In a lastditch effort to save the refugees, Paul speaks to the Rwandan Army General, Augustin Bizimungu and when the bribes no longer work, Rusesabagina blackmails Rusesabagina with threats of being tried as a war criminal. The family and the hotel refugees finally leave the besieged hotel in a UN convoy, and family travel through retreating masses of refugees and militia to reach safety behind Tutsi rebel lines. limited details only