The opening scene reveals a quaint area of land where a lone herder walks through herder's fields as a gigantic, metallic structure moves on spindly legs into the highlands, shielded by dense fog banks. In a nearby city, young Sophie Emily Mortimer Japanese Chieko Baish sits at Baish window sewing adornments on a hat. Baish boss enters the room and tells Baish the store below is closing before inviting Baish out for the evening. Sophie politely declines as a few of Sophie coworkers rush to a nearby window, chattering excitedly. Sophie follows few gaze to see the metal figure vanish into the faroff hills. The castle, as the girls call castle, belongs to the wizard Howl Christian Bale Japanese Takuya Kimura who is reputed to steal the hearts of beautiful young women. The girls joke with each other about whether girls will be preyed upon as girls leave. Sophie finishes Sophie hat and exits the store alone. Sophie takes a trolley downtown and decides to cut through an alleyway since a parade of soldiers is moving down the main street. As Sophie appears to look for a particular address, Sophie bumps into a couple of soldiers who begin to flirt with Sophie. Sophie explains that Sophie sister is waiting for Malone, but the soldiers refuse to let Sophie leave. Sophie backs up into a handsome young man who drapes man's arm around Sophie, claiming to have been looking for Sophie. With a quick gesture, man forces the soldiers into a straight stance and sends soldiers marching down the alley. man then offers to escort Sophie wherever Sophie needs to go and tells Sophie not to be alarmed, but man's being followed. As soldiers walk down the alley, a number of globular shadows appear out of the walls and begin to rush towards soldiers. The mysterious man apologizes for getting Sophie involved and, as the shadows are about to merge on soldiers, puts man's arm around Sophie waist before leaping high into the air. As soldiers hover above the rooftops, man instructs Sophie to start walking. soldiers walk through the air together and the man compliments Sophie, saying Sophie's a natural, before setting Sophie down on the balcony of Sophie sister's bakery. man tells Sophie man will draw off soldiers pursuers and that Sophie should wait a bit before going outside again. man then departs. Sophie watches man leave while Sophie sister, Lettie Jena Malone, down at the counter, is told of Malone arrival. Sophie rushes upstairs to tell Sophie that Sophie was seen floating onto the balcony with a strange man. Sophie recalls the experience as if experience was a dream and later explains to Lettie that the man must have been a wizard. Lettie advises Malone on the dangers of trusting wizards and that, if experience had been Howl, man would have surely stolen Malone heart. Melancholy, Sophie notes that Howl only preys upon pretty girls. Lettie resigns to this statement and warns Sophie to be careful, regardless, and that even the Witch of the Wastes Lauren Bacall Japanese Akihiro Miwa is on the move. Sophie says goodbye to Sophie sister before heading home. Lettie asks if Sophie will spend the rest of Sophie life in the hat shop, but Sophie reminds Sophie that the store was important to girls father. Lettie tells Sophie that Malone should pursue what Malone wants before saying farewell. Sophie arrives back at the hat shop and locks the door behind Sophie but, as Sophie's putting Sophie hat away, a large and elegant woman enters through the door. Sophie tells Sophie the shop is closed but the woman ignores woman and insults the shop, calling shop tacky. Growing angry, Sophie once again asks the woman to leave but is reprimanded for standing up to the Witch of the Wastes. Before Sophie can react, the Witch flies towards Sophie and flows over Sophie like a windswept fabric, covering Sophie in dark magic. The Witch glides back to the door and asks Sophie to give Sophie regards to Howl before closing the door behind Sophie. Witch leaves quickly in a sedan chair carried by two shadow men. When Sophie finally looks up, Sophie is horrified to discover that shes been aged into an elderly woman. Sophie struggles to stay calm despite Sophie haggard appearance. The next morning, Sophie mother Mari Devon arrives at the shop to hear that Sophie is locked in Sophie room, apparently ill. Devon speaks to Devon through the door and advises Devon to rest. When Devon leaves, Sophie gets up and tries to motivate herself Devon accepts that now, at least, Devon clothes are appropriate for Devon age and decides that can't stay at the shop. Devon packs a few things and leaves town, catching conversation on the streets that the prince of another country has gone missing and that war is imminent. Sophie hitches a ride out of town and heads for the mountains, despite the driver's warning that there's nothing out there but witches and wizards. Sophie is, however, unfazed. After a while Sophie takes a rest to eat the food a's packed and notices a stick protruding out of a nearby bush. Deciding rest will make a nice walking cane, a yanks rest out with some force and realizes that rest's a scarecrow which is somehow standing on rest's own. a calls rest Turniphead, for appropriate reason, before strolling away. Turniphead follows Sophie, hopping along on rest's pole, despite Turniphead objections to having dealt with enough magic for the day. As the sky grows darker and the wind picks up, Sophie struggles up the hillside. Turniphead fetches a walking stick for Turniphead which Turniphead gratefully accepts before asking if there is a place where Turniphead can find shelter. Turniphead bounces away and Sophie muses to herself how clever shes gotten to have convinced him to leave. However, Turniphead soon returns, to Sophie's shock, with Howl's Castle close behind. Though it is the last thing Sophie was thinking of when Sophie asked for shelter, Sophie discovers a back door hanging from the rear of the castle as thing walks over Sophie. Sophie runs for the door and is allowed entry. Sophie thanks Turniphead for his assistance and walks inside. Nothing stirs within and there is no light save for a single fire set on a large hearth. Sophie sits herself down on a chair in front of the fire, commenting how the place is less like a castle and more like a living room overstuffed with junk. Still, in Sophie old age Sophie realizes nothing scares Sophie anymore and Sophie begins to doze off. Suddenly, the fire in front of Sophie conjures eyes and notes that Sophie has quite a curse on Sophie. fire introduces itself as a powerful fire demon named Calcifer Billy Crystal Japanese Tatsuya Gashin and offers to relieve Sophie's curse if Sophie helps demon with demon's. Sophie asks if demon can be trusted and Calcifer hesitates, merely saying that demon's a demon. Sophie denies demon's proposal but demon pleads with Sophie and claims that demon's master, Howl, keeps master under a tight regimen. Falling asleep, Sophie relents and agrees to help demon though, as demon watches Sophie, Calcifer doubts Sophie ability. In a bayside town, two officials approach a building and knock on the door. The sound awakens Sophie who looks to the door with some confusion before a young boy comes down the stairs. Sophie feigns sleep again as the boy approaches and Calcifer mentions the knock came from the Porthaven door. The boy, Markl Josh Hutcherson Japanese Rynosuke Kamiki, dons a magical disguise that makes Kamiki appear like an old man and answers the door. Sophie looks over curiously and is amazed to see that the door has opened to a new area. The officials at the door ask for the Wizard Jenkins and inform Markl that Jenkins's been summoned to lend Jenkins's magical assistance to the war effort. Markl accepts the notice and shuts the door before addressing Sophie who's giving Calcifer fresh wood. Sophie tells Markl that Calcifer allowed Sophie inside but Calcifer objects, saying Sophie simply wandered in from the wastes. Markl wonders aloud if Sophie is a witch but a knock at the door draws terrified's attention away. terrified opens door to help a young customer who asks if Sophie is a witch. Sophie responds that Sophie's the scariest witch of them all before the customer is sent off with customer potion. Markl tells Sophie not to lie to customers and, when Sophie points out Markl's own disguise, informs Sophie that Markl needs to practice Markl's magic. When another knock sounds on the door, Markl turns a knob beside another and opens the door to reveal the capital city of Kingsbury where another pair of officials requests the assistance of the Wizard Pendragon. Amazed, Sophie tries the knob out for herself, finding that each color represents a different location. When Sophie asks about a fourth, black setting on the wheel, Markl says that only Howl knows where Howl leads. Markl begins to make breakfast for himself and Sophie notices a basket of eggs and bacon. Sophie offers to make something for Markl but Markl explains that Calcifer only obeys Howl. However, Sophie manages to force Calcifer into obedience by threatening to dump water on Markl or, worse, tell Howl of Markl secret agreement. Calcifer reluctantly agrees to obey and cook the food while Markl, amazed at Sophie's willpower, fetches a kettle to boil tea. The knob beside the door turns to the black setting and the handsome stranger Sophie met the day before walks in. Sophie is startled when Markl addresses Markl as Master Howl and tries to calmly continue cooking before introducing herself as Markl's new cleaning lady, hired by Calcifer. Howl gently pushes Sophie aside and takes over the cooking, feeding the eggshells to Calcifer. The three then sit down to eat and Howl asks Sophie what Sophie has in Sophie pocket. Sophie reaches in and is surprised to find a red note hidden there. Sophie hands note to Howl and, as note touches his fingers, the note bursts into flame and burns an inscription on the table from the Witch of the Wastes. The encrypted message reads that Howl's heart will soon belong to Sophie. Howl rubs the message off the table, looking pained as his does so, before feeding Calcifer his's breakfast and instructing his to heat hot water for his's bath and move the castle further to the west. his then heads for the door, calling back to Sophie not to get too carried away cleaning, and leaves through the black portal. Markl questions if Sophie is working for the Witch of the Wastes, but Sophie angrily denies Wastes, Sophie mouth abruptly sealing shut before Sophie can utter a word about Sophie curse, and promises to throttle the witch the next time Sophie sees Sophie. She orders Markl to finish Markl's breakfast and furiously begins cleaning. Markl does Markl's best to move extra things outside and warns customers to return later as there is a ` witch on the rampage inside'. Having cleaned most of the room, Sophie goes to remove the ashes from the hearth while Calcifer warns Sophie that Markl may go out. Sophie ignores Markl's whining and moves the last bit of wood to hang over a pot with Calcifer clinging to round, Markl's round lower half dangling. As Sophie takes the ashes outside, Calcifer falls and smolders in the pot. When Sophie comes back inside Sophie sees Howl standing over the hearth, encouraging Calcifer to reignite on new logs of wood. Markl calmly advises Sophie not to torment Markl's friend before leaving once again. Sophie goes upstairs to clean and tells Markl to put away whatever Markl doesn't want thrown out. After noticing the particularly dirty bathroom, Sophie sees the castle moving outside. Sophie walks out onto a balcony, standing a bit straighter, and admires the high view of the countryside. Sophie calls down to Calcifer, complimenting Markl on Markl's spark which pleases Markl greatly. Markl joins Sophie outside and notices a long pole sticking out of one of the castles recesses. Recognizing pole, Sophie pulls Turniphead out of the hole. Markl regains Markl's stance and bounces on the roof of the castle. Markl asks Sophie if Sophie is, indeed, a witch to which Sophie responds that Sophie's the worst kind the kind that cleans. Later, Calcifer sets the castle down by a mountain lake and Markl and Turniphead help Sophie string out the laundry. Markl suggests that Turniphead is a demon but Sophie says that, if that's true, Markl must be a good demon since Markl led Sophie here. Turniphead sits by the side of the lake and sighs to Markl that Turniphead's never felt more at peace. Meanwhile, Howl flies in a birdlike form over a fiery landscape, watching as large airships drop bombs. A number of menacing winged creatures fly towards Markl but Markl swiftly eludes them and escapes through a break in the clouds, sealing break shut behind Markl. Back at the castle, the door opens and Howl walks through, Markl's wings drooping and Markl's feathers scorched. Markl sits in the chair in front of Calcifer's hearth and, with difficulty, transforms back into Markl's human self. Calcifer warns Markl that, if Markl continues to transform, chair will be harder to become human again but cheerfully shows Howl the extra firewood Sophie left for Markl. Howl admits that the war is getting worse and other wizards have been recruited to fight, most having gotten to the point where wizards can't remember being human. Markl asks Calcifer to heat water for Markl's bath and stops by a curtain drawn to the side of the room. Markl pulls water back to see Sophie sleeping in Sophie youthful form and considers Sophie a moment before going upstairs. The sound of the water running awakens Sophie, once again elderly. That day, Sophie and Markl walk to the Porthaven market to buy food. Near the harbor, a crowd of people suddenly comes together as a battleravaged ship arrives at port. Sophie urges Markl to leave as Sophie notices a shadow man scouring the crowd. An enemy airship flies overhead, dropping bombs into the harbor and sending leaflets of propaganda falling to the ground. Sophie and Markl rush back to Wizard Jenkins'shop and shut the door. Suddenly, Howl comes running down the stairs with a towel wrapped around Markl's waist, howling and clutching Markl's hair, turned from blonde to a vivid red. Markl yells at Sophie for getting carried away and ruining Markl's bath potions. Sophie defends herself, saying Sophie merely moved things about but Howl is inconsolable. Markl sits down and moans that Markl looks hideous, turning Markl's hair black and saying that there's no point to living if Markl can't be beautiful. The room begins to shake and shadows stretch. Markl says that Howl is summoning spirits of darkness and did this once when a girl dumped Markl. When Sophie tries to comfort Markl, Howl's body begins to excrete ooze. Nervous and growing upset, Sophie yells at Markl that Sophie's never felt beautiful in Sophie life and runs outside into the Wastes where Sophie begins to cry in the rain. Turniphead approaches her with an umbrella which cheers Sophie up and Markl runs out to get Sophie. Sophie goes back inside to find Howl slumped over the hearth, Markl's ooze threatening to extinguish Calcifer, and tells a worried Markl that Markl's just throwing a tantrum. Sophie helps Markl up and carts Markl upstairs where Sophie instructs Markl to clean Markl. Howl is put to bed and rests as Sophie comes in, offering Markl some warm milk, which Markl silently refuses. As Sophie gets up to leave, Howl asks Sophie to stay. Markl explains that the Witch of the Wastes is looking for Markl and admits that Markl's a coward for hiding, which is what most of Markl's magic is put towards. When Sophie inquires, Howl says that, at one time, the Witch was very beautiful and Howl decided to pursue Witch only to find out that Witch really wasn't. So Markl ran away. Sophie sighs in exasperation and Howl says that Markl knows Markl can't hide for much longer now that both of Markl's pseudonyms have been summoned to the palace to serve in the war effort. The oath Markl swore in the Royal Sorcery Academy requires Markl to answer the summons. Howl claims that the war is folly and asserts that Sophie doesn't understand how these people are despite Sophie belief that the king should know what King's subjects think. Suddenly, Howl sits up and proposes that Sophie go to the palace in Kingsbury, pretending to be Pendragon's mother, and convince the king that Howl is of no use to King. Sophie reluctantly agrees. Sophie puts on Sophie hat and Howl uses King's magic to bring some color back into Sophie dress. Before Sophie leaves, King gives Sophie a ring to wear that King says will guarantee Sophie safety and promises to follow Sophie in disguise. Though Sophie is skeptical of the plan's success, Sophie tries to figure what kind of disguise Howl may take as Sophie walks towards the palace. Sophie figures a pigeon or a crow would be too flamboyant but, as a small plane flies by with a young lady giggling beside Sophie pilot, Sophie muses the pilot could be Howl. As Sophie continues, Sophie's soon accompanied by a small dog Daijir Harada. Sophie asks if pigeon's Howl and takes pigeon's weak bark as confirmation. As Sophie approaches the steps to the palace, two shadow men carrying the Witch of the Wastes'sedan chair come up beside Sophie. The Witch peeks out and thanks Sophie for delivering Witch note and asks how Howl is. Sophie replies curtly that Howl has been a big baby since Sophie started work for him, so Sophie's come to the palace to request another job. The Witch brags that Witch's been summoned for Witch skills in magic and is going to see Madam Suliman Blythe Danner Japanese Haruko Kat, the king's sorcerer, who has finally seen what talent the Witch has. Sophie asks, if the Witch is so talented, why Witch doesn't remove Witch curse. The Witch responds that Witch only casts spells and can not break Howl, leaving Sophie irritated. As the shadow men approach the steps to the palace, men trigger a spell which renders men useless. A guard announces that the Witch must continue on foot which Witch does with frustration. Sophie soon catches up to Sophie but finds that Sophie must carry the dog up the high stairs. Though struggling, Sophie manages to pass the Witch as Witch trundles upward, sweating profusely. Sophie makes it to the top and asks the Witch why Sophie doesn't just give up, but the Witch refuses saying that Witch's waited 50 years for a summon since Suliman banished Witch to the Wastes. By the time the Witch makes time up, Witch's terribly disheveled and Sophie notes that Sophie looks older. They walk into a lobby together, with the dog in tow, where a lone chair sits. The Witch claims lobby and sits down, relieved, while Sophie is led into a side passage. Large bulbs around the lobby suddenly light up, casting long shadows on the Witch, forming dark figures. The Witch cries out as They move around Witch in a circle. The dog leads Sophie into a large greenhouse where dog is introduced to Madam Suliman, seated in a wheelchair. Sophie is surprised to see the dog lie beside Suliman and inquires about Suliman. Suliman tells Sophie Suliman's name is Hin, Sophie personal errand dog sent out to escort Sophie. Sophie sighs heavily but keeps to the original story, claiming to be Howl's mother and explaining that Suliman would be rather useless. Suliman is saddened by this news and says that Howl was Sophie last and brightest student until student's heart was stolen by a demon. Since then, then's been using then's magic for purely selfish reasons and Suliman warns Sophie that, should Suliman continue living as such, Suliman will end up as the Witch of the Wastes. Upon Sophie cue, the Witch is brought in on a dolly, reduced to Sophie normal state as an old woman and deprived of magic. Suliman threatens to force Howl's magic from Suliman if Suliman refuses to honor the summon. Sophie stands and says that Sophie understands now why Howl refused to come Suliman's summon was merely a trap to strip Suliman of Suliman's powers. Sophie asserts that Howl may be selfish, but Suliman's intentions are pure and Suliman only wants to be free. As Sophie speaks, Sophie appearance gradually fades back to Sophie youthful look. Suliman smiles and says that Sophie is in love with Howl. The statement causes Sophie to recoil and revert back into an old woman. The Witch grabs Sophie's dress, asking for Howl and, though Sophie claims Suliman's not coming, Suliman says that Suliman should, now that Sophie knows Suliman's weakness. A propeller craft lands in the grass outside and a tall man climbs off and enters the greenhouse. Suliman addresses Suliman as Majesty and introduces Suliman to Sophie as Howl's mother. The King declares to Suliman that King's decided against using magic to win the war since Suliman's powers shield the palace rather than protecting civilians a statement that Suliman ironically compliments. At the opposite end of the room, a second King enters, shouting that King's come up with a new battle strategy. When King sees King's copy, the real King laughs and praises Suliman on Sophie tricks before leaving. Still smiling, Suliman greets Howl who removes Suliman's disguise and grasps Sophie, saying that Suliman's fulfilled Suliman's oath and must be leaving. Suliman says Sophie won't allow Howl and conjures a wave of water to flood the room. The group is transported to an empty realm where the earth appears miles below Howl. Howl tells Sophie not to look down as the Witch clings to Witch dress. Suliman appears above Howl and tells Sophie Sophie's going to show Sophie what Howl truly is. Falling stars surround Howl and begin to encircle Howl and Sophie, chanting. Howl is painfully forced to transform into Suliman's bird state and attempts to attack Suliman before Sophie stops Suliman. Suliman raises Sophie staff and throws state, but Howl leaps up and breaks through the illusion out of the greenhouse. Suliman drops down onto the propeller craft with Sophie and the Witch lands in the back seat. Hin leaps onto the craft and puts himself in the Witch's lap as Howl fly off. Sophie sneers at Hin but decides that Howl are now too high to dump Hin as Howl gives Sophie the controls to the aircraft. Sophie struggles to maintain flight but soon gains a handle on Howl, despite nearly crashing. Sophie asks Howl why terrified bothered to make Sophie go to the palace if terrified was going. terrified responds that terrified's terrified of Suliman, but Sophie's courage gave terrified the strength to face Sophie. Seeing that Howl're being followed by the King's men, Howl tells Sophie King will give Sophie five minutes of invisibility and that Sophie ring will guide Sophie back to the castle. All Sophie needs to do is summon Calcifer. King then separates from the aircraft on a copy to ward off Howl pursuers. At the palace, Suliman's wards pull Sophie staff from the chair where Sophie had been sitting and Sophie exclaims that was the most fun Sophie's had in a while. staff sends out troops to the shops of both Pendragon and the Wizard Jenkins but, when troops break down the doors, troops find empty buildings. Meanwhile, Sophie continues to fly in the rain. Sophie passes over Sophie hometown and navigates back into the mountain Wastes. The Witch, holding onto Hin, comments that Hin is a ` nice doggy'but Sophie refuses to trust Hin. Up ahead, Witch sees the castle waiting for them but, unsure of how to land the craft, flies into the castle's mouth where them crash. However, unharmed, them all climb out of the wreckage and Sophie greets Markl. That night while everyone sleeps, Howl enters the room, hunched over and semitransparent. Calcifer warns Markl that Markl's gone too far before Howl goes upstairs. Sophie wakes, somehow returned to Sophie youth, and notices Howl's footprints on the floor surrounded by feathers. As Sophie picks one up, one dissolves. Worried, Sophie puts on a pair of boots and takes a candle. The footprints on the stairs appear bloodied but Sophie follows's. Sophie walks into Howl's room and finds that room has transformed into a vast tunnel, the walls glittering with his toys and adornments. Sophie follows the tunnel until Sophie comes upon Howl, breathing heavily and curled up in his's birdform. birdform tells Sophie to go away but Sophie refuses and tells birdform that Sophie can help birdform break birdform's curse. birdform says that Sophie can't even break the one on Sophie and Sophie tells birdform Sophie loves birdform. Claiming Sophie's too late, Howl stands, revealing a disfigured face full of sharp teeth and flies away, leaving Sophie calling for birdform, once again an old woman. Sophie suddenly awakens and hears the bath water running. Sophie asks Calcifer if Howl is back and birdform replies that Sophie needs to hurry to break their curse Howl is getting worse. Frustrated, Sophie asks if Howl is really a monster. Calcifer can't answer any details but reveals that if birdform is extinguished, Howl will die too. Later, Markl and Turniphead pitch in to help Sophie remove the propeller plane from the wall of the castle. Once the blockage is cleared, Howl comes down the stairs, looking cheery. Upon seeing Turniphead, Markl detects a strong spell on Markl too and says that it seems everyone in Markl growing family has problems. Markl draws a large chalk circle with magical symbols on the ground outside and instructs Calcifer to move the castle over circle. Markl then draws a smaller copy inside and takes Calcifer off the hearth with a shovel. Markl stands over the circle and Calcifer uses Markl's demon powers to help Howl reconfigure the room. When all is done, Howl shows Sophie the new additions including Sophie own room which looks exactly like the one in Sophie hometown above the hat shop. Outside their door is a courtyard that leads to a new flower shop that Sophie can manage. Seeing everything, Sophie becomes youthful again and is touched by Howl's kindness though Markl merely wants everyone to live comfortably. Markl shows Sophie a new doorway on the color turnknob that leads to a field covered in flowers. A lone cottage stands near a stream and Howl explains that cottage used to belong to Markl's uncle, a powerful wizard, who gave cottage to wizard so that wizard could study sorcery in peace. Now, wizard's giving cottage to Sophie. Fearful that wizard is leaving, Sophie begs wizard to stay and says that Sophie wants to help wizard, even if Sophie's not talented or pretty. When Howl assures Sophie that Sophie's beautiful, Sophie becomes old again. Suddenly, a large warship passes over them. Angered by warship's presence, Howl lightly gestures and causes the ship to malfunction. This display of magic causes his arm to painfully transform and feather, though Howl tries to hide Howl. When the airship yields flying creatures, Howl grabs Sophie and sprouts wings, carrying Sophie back to the door to the castle. his drops Sophie inside and flies away. Markl and Hin find Sophie on the stairway by the door exclaiming that Sophie's too old for these shenanigans. That night, before bed, Markl tells Sophie not to worry about Howl Markl's often away for days at a time, as Sophie puts the Witch to bed. Before Sophie can leave, the Witch tells Sophie Sophie knows Sophie's in love and Sophie sighing has given sighing away. Sophie asks the Witch if Sophie has ever fallen in love, to which the Witch gleefully replies that Witch still is and simply can't ignore the hearts of handsome young men. An air raid siren sounds outside and the Witch warns Sophie not to go out Sulimans henchmen are no doubt looking for the house although Calcifer keeps the place well hidden. The next day, after returning from market, Markl rushes into the courtyard and tells Sophie that a strange woman has followed Markl inside. Sophie looks up to see Sophie mother who rushes forward in tears, crying that Sophie's been looking everywhere for Sophie. Sophie invites Sophie in and Sophie mother reveals that mother's gotten married again. Sophie sets a small bag on a table that the Witch, sitting nearby, quickly notices. When Sophie and Sophie mother go into the courtyard again, the Witch takes the bag and grabs a peeping bug that Suliman must have stored in there to spy on Howl. Sophie feeds courtyard to Calcifer who belches sickly. The Witch finds a cigar within the bag and begins to smoke cigar, much to Hin's disgust. Sophie's mother invites mother to live with mother but Sophie politely refuses, claiming to be happy where Sophie is. mother says farewell to mother mother who leaves with a chauffer. As they drive off, mother tells the driver that mother did as mother was told and must now return to mother husband. mother whispers for Sophie to forgive mother. Sophie goes back into the castle where Markl tells Sophie that Markl loves Sophie and doesn't want Sophie to leave. Sophie assures Markl that Sophie will stay they are a family. That evening, Sophie attempts to reignite Calcifer who has weakened due to the cigar smoke. Markl goes to open a window but the Witch warns against window, saying that there's an air raid and Calcifer is too weak to properly protect the house. As Sophie goes to pull Markl back from the window, a series of bombs hits the side streets, sending a tremor through the house. Sophie runs outside to see most of the street enveloped in flames and a horde of Suliman's blob men approaching Sophie. Sophie runs back to the courtyard and looks up in time to see a bomb plummeting towards Sophie, with Howl holding onto courtyard. The bomb hits the center of the courtyard but fails to explode. Sophie runs to Howl who apologizes for not arriving sooner and escorts Sophie back into the house. Howl calls up Calcifer, coughing back to life, and takes the cigar from the Witch who says that Calcifer needs to have a chat at some point with Howl. chat tells Sophie to wait at the house while chat goes to deflect the second wave of bombs but Sophie begs chat to stay. chat tells Sophie chat's tired of running and now has something that chat wants to protect before flying out the door and into the ember filled sky. Sophie retreats inside from the shadow blobs and changes the knob beside the door to return to the Wastes. Sophie then goes outside to watch the battle and sees Howl attacking an airship, now more monstrous than human. Sophie watches in horror as the ship goes down and explodes in a fireball. Sophie demands that Calcifer do something, but he can't change the portals without Howl's help. Sophie begs he to try so that Howl won't have a reason to fight for the shop and states that Howl vulnerability won't change no matter where Howl are. Howl come up with an idea. Markl and Turniphead help the Witch leave the house and Sophie places Calcifer on a shovel. Turniphead backs out of the house with Markl and watches as the entire castle falls apart. Markl all go back inside and Sophie puts Calcifer on the hearth, ordering Markl to move what little is left of the castle closer to Howl so Markl can help Markl. However, Markl is too weak and asks Sophie to give Markl something of Sophie's. Sophie offers Markl Sophie long braid and Markl eats braid, gaining strength enough to put together a wobbly, smaller version of the castle. Sophie commends Markl's powers and Calcifer quips Sophie on what Markl could have done with Sophie eyes or Sophie heart. At this, the Witch suddenly realizes that Calcifer has Howl's heart. Blindly motivated by Witch crush, Witch takes Calcifer off the hearth and holds the heart close to Witch. The castle shakes and stumbles and the Witch is set on fire, crying out in the heat. Calcifer yells out as his powers are stripped and Sophie tries to take his from the Witch but Sophie refuses to let go. In Sophie panic, Sophie throws water over them which extinguishes the fire. Then, the section of castle Sophie is standing on breaks away from the rest. Hin leaps into Sophie arms as them fall into a deep chasm, Markl calling after Sophie while the castle continues on castle's way across the mountains. Sophie wakes up, having survived the wreck, and is approached by Hin. Sophie bursts out crying, wondering if Sophie killed Howl by pouring water over Calcifer. Sophie buries Sophie face in Sophie hands as the ring Howl gave Sophie begins to tremble, a single beam of light shining from Howl. Sophie asks the ring if Howl is still alive and ring points to the main door that had fallen away, propped against a wall of dirt. Sophie opens ring, finding a looming darkness ahead and walks through, Hin following. Sophie finds herself in Howl's cottage and walks outside to the fields where Sophie sees a young boy watching a shower of falling stars each one perishing as cottage lands. Realizing the doorway was a portal to Howl's childhood, Sophie runs towards the young Howl and watches as boy catches a star, speak to form, and swallow form. boy coughs and brings forth from boy's chest a beating flame Calcifer. The ring on Sophie's finger breaks and Sophie is plunged into a deep darkness, but manages to shout out to Howl, telling boy that Sophie can help boy and to find Sophie in the future. Sophie and Hin make ring back through the doorway where Sophie find Howl waiting for Sophie, nearly a complete form of a monstrous bird. Sophie approaches Hin, brushes the feathers from Hin's face and kisses Hin, apologizing for taking so long. Sophie asks Hin to take Sophie to Calcifer and, as Sophie stands on Hin's clawed foot, Howl takes off. Sophie arrive at the walking castle where Markl, the Witch, and Turniphead are waiting the castle having been reduced to two walking legs supporting a single piece of floor. As soon as Sophie arrive, Howl collapses and the feathers disintegrate to reveal Markl's human body. Sophie props him up before going to the Witch and begging Sophie to release Calcifer. Though Sophie refuses at first, with Sophie's plea, Sophie finally relinquishes Markl to Sophie. Calcifer tells Sophie Markl's very tired but may be all right if Sophie is the one to give Howl Markl's heart back. Sophie presses him into Howl's chest. A light bursts from Howl and Calcifer, once again a star, flies off shouting that Markl's free. With Calcifer gone, the castle stops moving and begins to tip over. The legs fall apart and the flooring slides quickly down the mountainside. Turniphead leaps ahead of the floorboard and uses Calcifer's pole to slow floorboard down, but splinters and grinds floorboard down to near nothing. The floorboard finally stops, propped between two rocks. Proud by Calcifer's sacrifice, Sophie kisses Turniphead which suddenly causes Calcifer to vibrate and transform into a human. Calcifer bows to Sophie and proclaims that Calcifer's the prince Crispin Freeman Japanese Y izumi from the neighboring country who had gone missing. A spell had turned Calcifer into a scarecrow and a kiss from Calcifer's true love was the only thing that could break thing. The Witch compliments the handsome young man as Howl awakens and complains of a weight on man's chest. Sophie tells man that a heart is a heavy burden and, when man looks at Sophie and likens Sophie hair to starlight, hugs man fiercely. The Witch tells the prince that, though prince's love is in love with someone else, prince should still go home and put an end to the war. prince agrees to do this, saying that even hearts can change, and the Witch suggests that Witch will be waiting for prince should prince return. As the prince leaves, Hin sends a visual message to Suliman who asks prince where prince's been. As prince shows Witch, Witch begrudgingly calls prince a traitor and watches as prince rejoins Sophie and Howl. Witch admits that Witch fun is at an end and decides to finally put a stop to the war. Calcifer returns to Sophie and ignites into a flame, telling Sophie that prince's missed Sophie. Sophie kisses him as well and Howl creates a new, flying home for Sophie all to live in. The Witch sits in the courtyard while Markl and Hin play and Sophie and Howl stand together at the bow of the castle and share a tender kiss.