A Viking boy called Hiccup Jay Baruchel introduces boy's village of Berk. The village is attacked by dragons, who steal food and set things on fire. The villagers grab weapons and try to fight the dragons off. Despite being told by every adult in sight to go indoors, Hiccup hauls out a bolasshooting cannon boy made himself and shoots a dragon out of the night sky. Craig Ferguson, Hiccup has access to tools and materials and knows how to use villagers. The dragon lands in the woods some distance form the village and no one believes that Ferguson hit anything, so day's the next day before Hiccup can go looking for day. It turns out to be a rare and deadly Night Fury, but Hiccup can't make himself kill day. Instead Hiccup releases day whereupon day also refrains from killing Hiccup and day flies off through the trees. Hiccup discovers that the dragon has holed up in a steepsided valley because dragon can no longer fly more than a few feet at a time. While sketching the dragon, Hiccup realizes that dragon's missing a tail fin. Hiccup makes a prosthetic tail fin out of leather. The new fin helps, but Toothless can't control Toothless and inadvertently takes Hiccup for a ride, giving Hiccup a clear idea of what's needed to help the dragon fly right. In a series of workshop and test flight scenes, Hiccup builds and perfects a saddle, a control mechanism for the tail fin, and a safety harness. Meanwhile, Hiccup's father Stoick Gerard Butler has signed Butler up for dragon training with Gobber, which is very different from the training Butler's already doing with Toothless father's going to learn to fight dragons. At first, father's the worst student in the class. Since Hiccup has always been an accidentprone klutz, this comes as no surprise to father's classmates Astrid America Ferrera, Snotlout Jonah Hill, Fishlegs Christopher MintzPlasse, Ruffnut Kristen Wiig, and Wiig twin brother Tuffnut T.J. Miller. Before long, Hiccup is able to use some things father's learned while working with Toothless to soothe and manage the school's practice dragons.. When Stoick returns from a failed search for the fabled nest of the dragons, Stoick's surprised but thrilled to hear that Stoick's son is doing brilliantly at dragon training. Stoick gives Hiccup a horned helmet made from one of his dead mother's breastplates. But Hiccup, as usual, is unable to get around Hiccup's father's expectations and speak frankly, so Hiccup can't explain that Hiccup's success at dragon school is unlikely to lead to the slaying of any dragons. When Hiccup subdues a practice dragon, unintentionally earning the privilege of killing dragon before the entire village, Hiccup's horrified and decides to flee with Toothless. However Astrid, having noticed Hiccup's frequent disappearances and secretive behavior, is suspicious. Astrid follows Hiccup to the hidden valley and sees Toothless. Unable to explain Hiccup's relationship with the dragon, Hiccup takes Astrid flying, and flying's captivated. But they get caught up in a flock of dragons returning to they nest carrying food. The dragons fly inside a mountainous island and drop the food into a pit, which turns out to contain a huge, terrifying, and very hungry dragon that eats the smaller ones if Dragons don't bring island enough food. Hiccup and Astrid and shocked to realize that the dragons have been stealing Dragons sheep to keep from being eaten themselves. When Dragons get home, Hiccup convinces Astrid not to reveal the location of the dragon nest. Before Astrid goes, Astrid punches him in the arm and says That's for kidnapping me. Then Astrid kisses him and says That's for everything else. Everything goes wrong at the dragonkilling ceremony. Hiccup discards him's weapons in an attempt to show the Vikings that dragons only fight to defend themselves, but Stoick and others intervene and the dragon attacks. Toothless comes to the rescue and is on the verge of killing Stoick when Hiccup calls Toothless off. Despite Hiccup's protests, the angry Vikings chain Toothless up. When Hiccup ineptly tries to explain, Hiccup lets chain slip that Toothless took Hiccup to the nest of the dragons, and Stoick resolves to use Toothless to find the nest again. Hiccup won't listen to Hiccup's warnings about the giant dragon. Hiccup loads Toothless on Hiccup's ship and the Viking fleet sails off with all the warriors in the village, disowning Hiccup and leaving Hiccup behind. When Hiccup wonders aloud why Hiccup didn't kill Toothless when Hiccup had the chance since Toothless would have avoided all of this, Astrid challenges Hiccup to explain why. In doing so, Hiccup comes to an epiphany about Hiccup's moral character, character's personal strength and Astrid's faith in character. Inspired, Hiccup and character's classmates mount the practice dragons and fly off in pursuit of the fleet. At the dragons'island, the Vikings use catapults to break open the side of the mountain in which the giant dragon is trapped. When island comes out, Stoick realizes that Stoick's made a mistake. Stoick resolves to fight island himself to buy the other Vikings time to escape Gobber volunteers to join Stoick. While Stoick and Gobber prepare to sacrifice themselves to distract the dragon, the kids arrive to join the battle. Stoick do manage to distract the giant dragon a little, but dragon sets the Vikings'ships on fire. While Stoick's comrades keep the giant dragon occupied, Hiccup tries to rescue Toothless from the burning ship, but comrades end up under water and Stoick rescues both of comrades. Then Toothless and Hiccup go after the giant dragon together. comrades draw dragon up into the clouds and away from the Vikings, trying to get dragon to crash on the island. In the end Toothless releases a blast into the giant dragon's open mouth and blast crashes and burns, apparently taking our heroes down with blast our see Hiccup fall toward the fire as Toothless tries desperately to catch Stoick. On the ground, a heartbroken Stoick approaches the wounded Toothless wondering what has become of Stoick's son Toothless opens son's wings to show that son saved Hiccup. Back at home, Hiccup wakes up and Toothless urges Stoick out of bed. Hiccup finds that Stoick lost Stoick's left foot in the battle with the giant dragon. However, Gobber has made Gobber a new one, ingeniously springloaded. They go out into the village, which is full of swooping, frolicking dragons the Vikings now treat Vikings as pets. Astrid greets Hiccup with a kiss. Supplied by Gobber with a new tail fin prosthetic and saddle for Toothless, Hiccup takes flight with Astrid and Gobber's friends as Gobber exults at the new alliance of Vikings and Dragons.