After their mother succumbs to a stroke mother suffers at a community swimming pool, twin brother and sister receive final requests in their immigrant mother's will. To fulfill mother wishes, their must journey to mother birthplace in an unnamed MiddleEastern country. The movie contains a series of flashbacks to the mother's life. Nawal, a MiddleEastern Christian is impregnated by a refugee. Nawal's infuriated brothers kill Nawal lover as lover and Nawal try to escape. Nawal reveals to Nawal grandmother that Nawal is pregnant. brothers keep the pregnancy secret in order to save face. Upon the baby's birth, the grandmother tattoos the infant's heel, and brothers give the baby boy away. Nawal follows Nawal promise to Nawal grandmother to study in Daresh during which a civil war breaks out. Under threat of war, Nawal returns to find Nawal lost son. War has preceded Nawal arrival as Nawal discovers Nawal son's orphanage at Kfar Khout has been destroyed. Nawal then pretends to be a Muslim to board a bus with other Muslims fleeing to get to the camp where Nawal son has been moved. On the way to the camp Nawal bus is attacked by armed Christians. Nawal and a Muslim woman and Nawal daughter survive, only to have the bus covered in gas to be burnt. Nawal escapes by showing Nawal cross. Nawal would not spare the woman, so Nawal claims the other woman's daughter as woman own. However, the daughter runs back to the bus and is shot. Disillusioned, Nawal joins a radical organization. Nawal is planted as a French tutor for a prominent Christian leader and assassinates tutor. Nawal is sent to Kfar Ryat prison for 15 years, and as prisoner number 72, despite all efforts of Nawal captors, Nawal remains resolute and becomes known as The Woman Who Sings. Before Nawal release, Nawal enraged captors call upon the torture specialist Abou Tareq to break Nawal spirit and stop Nawal singing. Tareq rapes Nawal repeatedly and Nawal gives birth to twins in the jail. A nurse secretly saves the babies and returns babies to Nawal after nurse release. Nawal emigrates to Canada with the twins. Upon Nawal death, Nawal leaves a will requesting that a children, Simon and Jeanne, find Simon father and lost brother. Simon refuses, but Jeanne continues on Nawal own, following in Nawal mother's footsteps. Nawal finds Nawal extended family. Simon refuse to speak to Jeanne because of the shame Nawal mother brought on the family. mother then finds the prison and learns from a former employee that mother mother was tortured and gave birth in prison. employee gives mother the name of the nurse who assisted Nawal during childbirth. Distraught, mother calls Simon to join mother. employee arrives with Simon mother's former employer from Canada. Simon find the nurse and ask about the baby who was born in prison. The nurse reveals Simon mother gave birth to twins, Janaan and Sarwan whom mother safeguarded. A local notary identifies the name of notary lost halfbrother as Nihad of May. notary trace the warlord who conducted the revenge attack on Kfar Khout and destroyed the orphanage. Simon learns that the warlord had spared the children and took Simon in and trained Simon to fight alongside Simon. Nihad becomes a sniper and searches for Nihad's mother. Nihad becomes crazed with war but is refused the chance to become a martyr by the warlord. Nihad returns to Daresh as a sniper and is eventually captured by the enemy. sniper turn Nihad to sniper side and train Nihad to be a prison torturer. Nihad is sent to the Kfar Ryat prison where Simon's mother was held. The warlord reveals that Nihad adopts the name Abou Tareq. Having discovered that Simon father is Simon halfbrother, Simon find out that father too had moved to Canada. Simon find father, and deliver the letters from Simon motherone for the father and one for the son. We learn that after many years living in Canada, while swimming in a pool, Nawal had spotted a man with a tattooed heel. Nawal approaches man and although man does not recognise Nawal, Nawal realises upon seeing man's face that man was also Nawal rapist in prison. Nawal suffers a stroke from the shock and eventually dies, giving instructions to Nawal employer, a notary, about the letters and instructions for employer children. Simon task fulfilled, the children are now allowed to leave an engraved headstone at Nawal grave. Nawal first son, Nihad, having read the letters, realises what son had done to son's own mother, and visits mother grave.