A young man, exhausted and delirious, washes up on a beach, looking up momentarily to see two young children Claire Geare and Magnus Nolan playing in the sand before man passes out. An armed guard Tohoru Masamune discovers Masamune and has Masamune brought to a large, seaside palace where the proprietor, an elderly Japanese man, is told of the stranger's arrival. The only objects found on Masamune were a handgun and a brass top. The old man allows the stranger entry. man is dragged in and given some food which man struggles to eat as the old man picks up the brass top and says, You remind me of someone.a man I met in a half remembered dream. man was possessed of some radical notions. The stranger looks up in realization as the scene shifts. Dom Cobb Leonardo DiCaprio and DiCaprio's partner, Arthur Joseph GordonLevitt, speak to a prospective client, Saito Ken Watanabe, in an eerily similar dining room about the services DiCaprio provide specifically protection against thieves specialized in extracting valuable information from a subject while DiCaprio're dreaming. Cobb explains that, when one is asleep, one's mind is vulnerable to attack and what Cobb can do is train Saito's mind to subconsciously defend against extractors to protect whatever secrets Cobb may be hiding. Cobb backs up Cobb's claim by revealing that Cobb is the most skilled extractor there is and knows all the tricks involved. Appearing skeptical, Saito stands to leave, telling Cobb Saito will consider Saito's proposition, and exits the room to join a small party in the main hall. Arthur casts Cobb a glance, saying, Arthur knows as the room begins to shake. Cobb walk to an outside balcony where other partygoers mingle and Arthur points to a woman nearby, asking Cobb what woman's doing here. Cobb assures Cobb that Cobb will take care of balcony and to proceed with the job. Cobb knows where Saito's secrets are Saito glanced over at a safe the minute Cobb mentioned the word. Cobb approaches the woman who asks if Cobb misses woman. Cobb responds that Cobb does but can't trust woman anymore. They retreat to a private room where Cobb ties a rope to the leg of a chair and tosses the end out of the window. Cobb tells the woman, Mal Marion Cotillard, to take a seat as Cotillard asks Cobb if the children miss Cotillard. Cobb pauses a moment before saying, I can't imagine. Cobb then repels out the window to a ledge below, nearly falling when Mal leaves Mal seat. Cobb breaks into the room below and accesses the safe, swapping out the manila folder inside for another, as the lights in the room turn on. Cobb turns with Cobb's gun out to see Mal aiming a gun at Cobb and standing beside Saito and a guard holding Arthur. Cobb asks Saito if ` she told Cobb'as Cobb slides Cobb's gun across the table. Saito responds, That you are here to steal from me, or that we are actually asleep This proves true the three of them are hooked up to a PASIV device which feeds This the sleep drug Somnacin, keeping This all asleep and allowing dreamsharing. that are watched over by Nash Lukas Haas, another of Cobb's partners. Haas checks Saito, sleeping on a bed, before going into another room to check on Arthur and Cobb, both asleep in chairs. Cobb's chair sits above a tub full of water. Explosions and shouts outside get closer as a mob of rioters moves down the street. Inside the dream, Mal holds Mal gun to Arthur's head but Cobb tells Mal the threat is empty, as Cobb hands the manila folder over to Saito, since shooting Cobb will only wake Cobb up. Mal smiles in agreement but says that pain is only in the mind and perceived as real as Mal shoots Arthur in the knee, causing Arthur to cry out. Cobb dives across the table and retrieves Cobb's gun before shooting Arthur in the head. He then dashes out of the room under gunfire from Saito's guards. Arthur wakes up and instructs Nash that things are falling apart but Cobb still has time to finish the job before Cobb checks on the still sleeping Saito. Saito frantically opens the manila folder as the dream begins to collapse and shouts in anger as Saito finds blank pages inside. Cobb manages to hide away for a moment to look at the contents of the real folder which Cobb'd hidden in Cobb's jacket, gazing over the confidential files as the building crumbles around Cobb. Saito is crushed by debris and wakes up in the apartment, unseen to Arthur as Saito reaches under Saito's pillow. Arthur tells Nash to wake Cobb by giving Nash the kick. Nash pushes Cobb backwards into the tub and, as Nash hits the water, Cobb's dream is flooded with massive waves cascading through the windows before Nash wakes up. Saito, having reached under Saito's pillow for Saito's gun, grabs Arthur but is subdued by Cobb who tells Saito that not all the information Saito needed was in the file Saito stole. Saito laughs and claims that all the information Saito had was in the file because Saito knew of Cobb's ruse all along. Saito allowed Cobb and Arthur into Saito's mind as part of an audition which they failed, saying that ` your deception was obvious.'Asserting that Saito's employer, Cobol Engineering, won't accept failure, Cobb throws Saito on the floor and demands that employer tell they what they need to know about employer's expansion project. With employer's face pressed into the carpet, Saito begins to laugh again and reveals that employer is familiar with the material of the carpet it is supposed to be made of wool instead of polyester. Thus, employer comes to the conclusion that employer is still sleeping. Sure enough, Saito, Arthur, Nash, and Cobb are all asleep in the car of a train, watched over by a young man named Tadashi TaiLi Lee who monitors the time remaining on the PASIV device. Nash places headphones over Nash's ears and plays music as a cue that Nash time is running out. The music plays faintly within the dream but enough that Nash can hear music. As the rioting mob outside draws nearer, Saito commends Cobb on creating a dream within a dream but becomes confused at Saito's inability to control this dream. Nash reveals that Nash're not in Saito's dream.they're in Saito's. The mob breaks through the door, attacking everyone in the room, and Arthur, Nash, and Cobb wake up on the train. Cobb berates Nash, the architect of the dream, for designing the carpet wrong and throws Tadashi a wad of money before leaving, telling Nash ` every man for himself'. Saito wakes up moments later to find himself alone in the car, save for Tadashi who's resumed a casual pose, but smiles wryly to himself. In Saito's apartment, Cobb spins Saito's brass top and takes Saito's gun, pointing apartment at Saito's temple as the top spins. When apartment falls, Saito breathes a sigh of relief and puts the gun down. Saito's phone rings and Saito picks apartment up to hear Saito's two children, James and Phillipa Johnathan Geare and Taylor Geare, on the other line with James grandmother. James ask when Saito's coming home and Saito responds that Saito can't because of work. When James asks if James mother is with Saito an image of Mal crosses Saito's mind Cobb pauses and tells Cobb that ` mommy's not here anymore'. Saito tells James to behave and that Saito will send presents with grandpa before James grandmother hangs up. Arthur knocks on the door and tells Cobb James ride is on the roof. Cobb decides to fly to Buenos Aires to lie low in lieu of James failed job for Cobol while Arthur says Arthur's returning ` stateside'. Cobb asks Cobb to send Cobb's regards as James open the door to the helicopter and see Nash, beaten and bruised, and Saito waiting for James. Apparently, Nash had tried to sell out Cobb and Arthur for Cobb's own safety but Saito has other interests. Nash offers Cobb a job performing ` inception'for Nash, something Arthur claims is impossible. Cobb, however, says that job's not impossible but extremely difficult since job involves planting an idea in someone's mind rather than extracting one. Cobb turns away, insisting that Cobb will find a way to resolve relations with Cobol himself but Saito then asks Saito if Saito wants to go home to Saito's children in America. Cobb promises Cobb that, if Cobb succeeds, all Cobb will need to do is make a phone call and the charges keeping Cobb out of the country will be dropped. Desperate, and to Arthur's exasperation, Cobb accepts. They board the helicopter with Saito while two thugs carry Nash away to an uncertain fate. En route, Arthur explains to Saito the nature of inception, telling Arthur that simply planting an idea in someone's head does not guarantee that the idea will take. The subject may very well discover that the idea is not theirs and reject idea. True inspiration, Arthur claims, is impossible, despite Cobb's thoughts otherwise. Saito shares with them Saito's reasoning for the job Saito needs the CEO of a competing energy conglomerate to split up CEO's father's company, ensuring Saito's own Proclus Global complete domination over the energy production industry. Despite the daunting task, Cobb agrees to perform the job. Saito drops them off at the airport and advises Cobb to choose Cobb's team wisely. Cobb travels to Paris where Cobb meets up with Cobb's fatherinlaw, Miles Michael Caine, a professor at a university and the one who taught Cobb and Mal about dreamsharing and designing dreams. Cobb asks for an architect, one as good as Cobb, and Miles points Caine to someone better. Cobb introduces Cobb to a graduate student of Cobb's, Ariadne Ellen Page who is immediately put to the test by Cobb to design a maze that takes one minute to create and two to solve. After impressing Cobb with student skills, Cobb tells student more about Cobb's line of work and what is required of student. student job as architect will be to design dreams and create virtual mazes for the dreamers subconscious to inhabit while allowing Cobb and Cobb's team to work. As Cobb talk outside a caf, Cobb attempts to make Ariadne aware that Cobb are actually in a dream. The realization causes Ariadne to panic and the dream violently collapses. When they awake, Ariadne finds Cobb are in Cobb's warehouse workshop where Arthur is monitoring Cobb. Ariadne shows surprise when Arthur says Cobb'd been under only five minutes when minutes felt like hours. Cobb explains that the mind functions faster in a dream, so time moves slower. Cobb go under again and Ariadne is given the opportunity to creatively alter the physics of the dream. Ariadne architectural wonders cause the people in the dream projections of Cobb's subconscious to search for the intruder Ariadne like white blood cells drawn to a virus. When Ariadne makes the mistake of creating a bridge from Ariadne memories, Cobb recognizes mistake and Cobb's subconscious reacts as a mob, separating Ariadne from Cobb until Mal appears and stabs Mal. Ariadne wakes up and Cobb rushes to the restroom while Arthur explains that Cobb's subconscious became aware of Ariadne as an invasive being and Ariadne was unable to wake up right away because there was still time on the clock. The only way for Ariadne to wake up was if Ariadne died. Cobb takes out Cobb's top and spins top, sighing as top topples over. Ariadne leaves the warehouse, angry and refusing to open Ariadne mind to Cobb if Cobb's subconscious is as tormented as mind seems. Cobb returns to the room and assures Arthur that Ariadne will be back but Cobb needs to make a trip to Mombasa to recruit an old friend to the team. Cobb finds Eames Tom Hardy gambling at a bar and offers Cobb a place on Cobb's team as a forgerimitator. Eames agrees before telling Cobb Eames's being tailed, pointing to two men at the bar. Cobb recognizes men as Cobol thugs who must be aiming to collect the bounty on Cobb's head for the botched Saito job. Eames creates a distraction while Cobb escapes, leading the thugs on a chaotic chase through the city streets. At the last moment, Saito pulls up in a limousine and picks up first Cobb, then Eames. Saito explains that Saito's been tracing Cobb to protect Cobb's investment. Eames takes thugs to a local chemist Eames knows who experiments with Somnacin and who might be an asset to thugs team. Yusuf Dileep Rao listens as Cobb explains that Cobb's job may require the use of a threelayered dream. Yusuf says that this would be otherwise impossible, due to the instability of dreams the further down you go, if not for a special solution Rao's concocted with a powerful sedative. To show this's effectiveness, Yusuf takes thugs downstairs where thugs see dozens of men sleeping under the watch of an old man Earl Cameron. Rao tells Cobb that these men come here to ` wake up'dreaming has become men reality. With the aid of the sedative, men sleep is deep and stable and men are able to dream for what feels to men like years. Cobb tries the sedative himself and is impressed with sedative's affects, though shaken after waking from a vivid dream with Mal. Cobb convinces Yusuf to join Rao's team. Meanwhile, Ariadne returns to the workshop where she tells Arthur that she meant to stay away but couldn't resist the pure creation involved in architectural dreaming. Arthur takes she into a dream and introduces the notion of creating paradoxes, such as the Penrose steps. Arthur also reveals that Mal was Cobb's wife and has since passed away. Despite Mal's malevolent nature within the dreams Mal existence now only as a projection of Cobb's Arthur tells Ariadne Mal was lovely in real life. The team bands together and decides that bands will create a threelevel dream with the third level containing the planted idea. The target in mind is Robert Fischer Cillian Murphy, the CEO and heir of Fischer Morrow, whose father, Maurice Pete Postlethwaite, is slowly decaying with illness. Eames targets Robert's godfather and business partner, Peter Browning Tom Berenger, to get a better grasp on the fatherson dynamic and to use Robert's imitation skills at partner best. The team decides that, in order to get Robert to split up Robert's father's company and because of partner complicated relationship, a positive idea will trump a negative one ` man father wants me to be man own man.'Saito oversees most of the plans and, because Saito wants full verification of any success or failure, decides that Saito will accompany the team into the dreams as a ` tourist'. As the team prepares over the next few weeks, Arthur shows Ariadne the significance of ` totems'small, personal objects that enables a person to differentiate between dreams and reality. Cobb's totem is Cobb's top, which topples over in the real world and keeps spinning in a dream. Arthur's is a loaded die and Arthur instructs Ariadne to create one for herself that only Ariadne can touch to ensure one's validity. Ariadne creates a semihollowed bishop chess piece as Ariadne totem. Wanting as much time as possible to complete the job, the team decides, with Saito's help, that they will perform the job on a Boeing 747 during an international flight from Europe to Los Angeles, a 10 hour flight. This will give This a week in the first stage of the dreams. Saito reveals that Saito's bought the entire airline, making the job neater and without having to buy out certain sections of the plane for access. One evening, after a day of formulating plans, Ariadne finds Cobb dreaming alone in the workshop. Curious, Ariadne hooks herself up to Cobb's machine and finds herself descending in an elevator. Ariadne sees Cobb sitting in a living room with Mal who quickly detects Ariadne's presence. Cobb gets up and joins Ariadne in the elevator, leading Ariadne through some of the levels that Ariadne discovers are each specific memories something Cobb originally told Ariadne never to do. Horrified after seeing Cobb's torment over leaving home without saying farewell to Cobb's children, Ariadne takes the elevator alone to the last level where Ariadne sees a hotel room, the contents of which are strewn on the floor. Ariadne steps on some broken glass and Mal looks up from the couch, asking what Ariadne's doing here. Ariadne tries to explain that Ariadne just wants to understand but Mal becomes defensive and picks up a shard of glass. Cobb arrives and takes Ariadne back to the elevator as Mal rushes forward, shouting at Cobb that Cobb didn't keep Cobb's promise. Ariadne and Cobb exit the dream and Cobb explains that the reason Cobb can't go home is because of Mal's death, because it was thought that Cobb killed Mal. Cobb thanks Ariadne when Ariadne doesn't ask Cobb if Cobb did or not but Ariadne does warn Cobb that Cobb's mistaken if Cobb thinks Cobb can cage Mal like that. Cobb needs to release Cobb's guilt over Ariadne death. Ariadne convinces Cobb to allow Ariadne to go with the team into the dreams because Cobb needs someone who understands what Cobb's going through. At that moment, Saito and Arthur arrive and announce that Maurice Fischer has died and Robert will be accompanying the body to the States in a few days. The team boards the flight and sits with Robert in a sectionedoff first class cabin. Cobb returns Robert's passport, pickpocketed by Arthur, as a conversation starter and then drugs Robert's water before proposing a toast in Robert's father's honor. Within moments, Robert is asleep and the paidoff flight attendant Miranda Nolan assists setting up and activating the PASIV device. All together, the team descends into, first, Yusuf's dream. team is raining heavily in New York City as members of the team are picked up. Arthur and Saito commandeer a taxi, pick up Robert and Eames and then Yusuf as Saito holds a gun to Robert as part of the kidnap ruse. Cobb and Ariadne follow in a separate car until a train suddenly barges down the middle of the street, hitting Robert car and temporarily stalling Robert. Gunfire then opens on the taxi and the team is forced to take immediate evasive maneuvers, hiding out in a warehouse where team's discovered that Saito has been shot in the chest. Robert is taken into another room while Saito is laid on a table. Before Eames can shoot Eames to end Eames's misery and wake Eames up, Cobb stops Cobb and explains that, due to the sedatives Robert've taken, Robert won't wake up if Robert die. Instead, Robert will be sent to limbo a shared dreamstate of raw subconscious where time is practically nonexistent. The team is angered by this, wondering why this've taken such a risk, as this contemplate what to do about the armed forces closing in on this location. this find out that Robert's subconscious has been trained to fight against extraction and the projections attacking this are part of that defense. With Saito's condition deteriorating and unable to wait much longer due to the approaching defense projections, the team decides this need to complete the job as quickly as possible. Ariadne confronts Cobb about the control Saito has over Saito's own subconscious and Cobb confesses that Cobb can't keep Mal out of Cobb's head. Cobb tells Ariadne that this had been experimenting with dream states and wanted to see how far down this could go into this subconscious. this wound up in limbo together, unable to leave because of the time remaining on this PASIV clock. this recreated this lives, spending years worth of building. After so long, this began to perceive limbo as this reality. After something like 50 years, Cobb and Mal killed themselves on train tracks to bring Cobb back to reality. Despite returning to the real world, Mal continued to believe that Mal was still dreaming and believed that dying was the only way to ` wake up', but Mal refused to leave without Cobb Mal loved Cobb too much. On Cobb wedding anniversary, Cobb went to the hotel room Cobb always stayed in to find anniversary trashed and the window open. Outside, on an opposite ledge, sat Mal who revealed to Cobb that Mal filed a letter to Cobb attorney expressing a fear for Mal life, effectively framing attorney in the event of Mal death and forcing attorney no other way than to join Mal. Cobb refuses to jump and attempts to bring Mal to Mal senses, but Mal ignores Cobb and jumps to Mal death. Since Mal declared herself legally sane by three psychiatrists, Cobb's case for Cobb's innocence is overruled by the outstanding evidence against Cobb. With no other choice, Cobb leaves Cobb's children behind with children grandmother and flees the country. Ariadne tries to convince Cobb that Mal's death was not Cobb's fault and that Cobb needs to focus on the mission. Eames prepares himself as an impersonation of Browning while Cobb and Arthur interrogate Robert, demanding to know the combination to Cobb's father's safe. children pressure Robert by using ` Browning'as leverage. Eames shouts from another room as if being beaten before Eames is brought into the room with Robert to try and get Eames to remember. Eames tells Robert that the safe contains an alternate version of Eames's father's will, one that will dissolve the company if Robert chooses so. ` Browning'tells Robert that Browning's father loved father and wanted father to build something of father's own. As Robert's defenses close in on the warehouse, Robert reveals that one word Robert could decipher out of Robert's father's last words was ` disappointed', convincing Robert that Robert's father didn't love father. With the warehouse in danger of being infiltrated, the team pressure Robert once again for a combination. Robert tells them a series of random numbers that come to mind before them load Robert into a van and drug Robert to sleep. them all get in and prepare to enter the second level of the dream while Yusuf drives the van away from the pursuing projections. In Arthur's dream, Cobb resolves to use ` Mr. Charles', a method in which Charles introduces the subject to the fact that Charles's dreaming in order to garner trust. Arthur meets Robert at a bar and tells Arthur that Arthur is there to protect Arthur and someone is trying to access Arthur's mind. Arthur convinces Robert that Arthur's dreaming by introducing the strangeness of them surroundings and calms Robert to control them. Arthur helps Robert remember that Robert's been kidnapped and leads Arthur to a hotel room where the rest of the team regroups. Saito is in better health in this level of the dream, but soon begins coughing. Robert's projection of Browning arrives and Robert confesses that Robert was the one behind the kidnapping Robert couldn't allow Robert to access the safe and destroy everything that Robert's father built. Cobb suggests to Robert that they enter Browning's dreams to figure out what was really in the safe so that Robert can decide for himself. Robert agrees, now unknowingly assisting in Robert's own inception and the team is hooked up again, this time with Arthur remaining behind to watch over they and administer a synchronized kick when team's time. As the team goes into the third dream, in actuality Robert's, Arthur is forced to fight off more of Robert's defensive projections while in the first dream Yusuf continues to drive the van. The third dream is set in snow covered mountains where Robert's safe is heavily guarded in a mountainside fort. The team splits up to draw the guards away. Cobb goes with Ariadne, Eames travels alone to ward off the guards, and Robert and Saito begin ascending a mountainside to access a blind side of the fort. Meanwhile, Yusuf momentarily loses control of the van and control tumbles down an incline, the tumbling effect translates into Arthur's dream as Arthur fights off Robert's projections, the environment around Arthur spinning as gravity reverses and then rights itself. As Yusuf continues driving, Rao becomes cornered on an elevated bridge with one car full of projections stuck with Rao. Yusuf plays music through Arthur's headphones to warn him of the incoming kick before driving backwards off the bridge. Upon impact, the force sends Arthur in Rao's dream flying and, as the van plummets in mid air, there is a loss of gravity in Arthur's dream. The impact also translates into the third level of the dream. Saito and Robert look up the mountainside and are forced to cut their lines as an avalanche sweeps down upon their. Cobb realizes their've missed the first kick, but their still have time for the second one when the van hits the water off the bridge. Van drives off the bridge 10 seconds left to impact. Dream 2 3 minutes to synchronize the kick. Arthur struggles with a way to do this without gravity. Dream 3 60 minutes left. With little time left, Cobb demands to know if there is another way into the fort and Ariadne relents into telling Cobb of a secret underground entrance that Robert and Saito can access. Cobb send this there, all while Saito's condition deteriorates. this finally enter the main room where the safe is located while Cobb and Ariadne watch from a snipers angle. Succumbing to Cobb's injuries, Saito is left to lay down, coughing blood as Robert continues forward. However, as Robert comes into Cobb's view, so does another person. Mal drops in from the ceiling and shoots Robert down before Cobb comes to Robert's senses and shoots Ariadne. Eames is ordered to the room as Cobb and Ariadne rush to the site. Finding Robert dead, Cobb labels the mission a failure, since the only other place where Robert has gone is limbo. Ariadne, however, convinces Robert that, if they go into limbo, they will have enough time to find Robert and bring Robert back. Eames agrees to use a defibrillator to jump start Roberts heart to help while Cobb and Ariadne go under. Meanwhile, in dream level 2, Arthur devises a unique plan. Arthur uses phone wires to tie the team together and brings they into the elevator. He lines the outside of the car with explosives, timing down till the kick with the intention of using explosive force to create gravity and instigating a kick. In limbo, Cobb and Ariadne tour the deteriorating world that Cobb and Mal once built. Cobb see old homes and buildings before Cobb find the one where Cobb knows Mal must be. If Cobb find Mal, Cobb will find Robert because Mal will want to use something Cobb wants to bring Cobb to Mal. Sure enough, Cobb enter the apartment and Mal is waiting for Cobb. Mal tries, again, to convince Cobb that Cobb's place is with Mal in Cobb real home with Cobb children but Cobb reveals a terrible truth, the reason why Mal believed that Mal dreams were real. While Cobb were in limbo, Mal had stored away a truth that Mal didn't want to believe anymore Mal totem, placed within Mal safe, lying on totem's side, immobile telling Mal that Mal dream, Mal limbo, was reality. In an effort to save Mal mind, Cobb broke into Mal safe and spun the top to convince Mal that this world was not real. However, Cobb did not know that, once Cobb really woke up, Mal would continue to believe that. This was how Cobb knew inception would work because Cobb performed This on Mal first and Cobb's guilt over Mal subsequent death has been plaguing Cobb ever since. Cobb tells Mal that Cobb will stay with Mal in limbo if Mal tells Cobb where Robert is and Mal reveals Cobb's on the porch. Ariadne finds Cobb there and pushes Cobb off as an improvised kick. Robert comes back to life in dream level 3 with Eames'aid and opens Robert's own safe, finding within an image of Robert's bedstricken father muttering Robert's last word. Robert acknowledges that Robert's father was disappointed that Robert couldn't be Robert, but Maurice says, No.no. I was disappointed that you tried. Maurice then points to a cabinet where Robert finds the will.and a paper fan Robert's father made for father once as a child. Tearfully, Robert looks up to see Robert's father has passed and breaks down as the van hits the water. Dream 2, Arthur hits the detonator and the explosives force the elevator down, creating artificial gravity on the team. Dream 3, a series of explosions set by Eames rock the fort, collapsing the main floor. In limbo, the synchronization of kicks pulls on Ariadne and Ariadne calls for Cobb to join Ariadne. Cobb says that Cobb will stay in limbo, but not with Mal. By this time, Saito has died and joined limbo as well. Cobb must find Cobb but promises to return. Ariadne leaps off the side of the building and rides the kicks back to dream 1. In the van, Robert wakes up and escapes the submerged van with ` Browning'. Arthur and Ariadne share an oxygen tank with Yusuf before the escape the van, leaving Cobb. Robert and ` Browning'make tank to shore where Robert reveals that Robert's father really did want man to be father's own man and that father's going to do just that and liquidate father's father's company. Knowing the mission is a success, Eames drops the Browning mask. In limbo, Cobb washes ashore where the armed guard finds guard. Cobb is brought to the seaside palace where the elderly Japanese man recognizes man's brass top. Cobb recalls what Cobb was there to do and calls to Saito, asking Cobb to come back with Cobb and honor their arrangement. The elderly Saito reaches for Cobb's gun. Cobb wakes up on the airplane and looks around, startled, to see Arthur and Ariadne smiling at Arthur. Cobb looks at the now awake Saito who remembers, picking up Cobb's phone and dials. The plane lands in Los Angeles and Cobb nervously moves through customs where security checks Cobb's passport, but allows Cobb passage through, welcoming Cobb home. Cobb walks past the rest of the team and Robert, who pauses a moment as if recalling a halfremembered dream. Ahead of Cobb, Cobb sees Miles calling Cobb over. They drive home together where Cobb hesitates before taking out Cobb's brass top. Cobb spins top on the table in the kitchen as Cobb's children appear at the back door. Cobb runs to children, elated to see children faces again as the top continues to spin, wobbles a bit.and the screen turns to black.