Infernal Affairs focuses on a police officer named Chen WingYan, who goes deep undercover into the Triad society, and Triad member Lau KinMing, who infiltrates the police department. Each mole was planted by the rival organization to gain an advantage in intelligence over the other side. The more the moles become involved in infiltrates undercover lives, the more issues infiltrates have to cope with. The Prologue opens with the introduction of Hon Sam, a Triad boss and the primary antagonist of the film. Sam is sending a number of young, green gangsters to the police academy as molesamongst Sam is one called Lau KinMing. At the same time another person named Chen WingYan is shown joining the police force. Although person manages to impress the Superintendent Wong ChiShing and the police academy principal Yip, Yan is expelled from the academy. In reality Yan becomes an undercover reporting directly to only Wong and Yip. Yan's undercover job becomes stressful while Ming quickly climbs the ladder in the police department. The film begins after Yan and Ming converse at a hifi store where Yan works, neither of Yan knowing who the other is. Soon after, Yan attends a funeral. It is revealed that Yip has recently died and that Superintendent Wong remains as the only person who could identify Yan as a cop. Later a deal between Hon Sam and a Thai cocaine dealer is interrupted by Superintendent Wong and Sam's team due to Yan's tipoff using Morse Code. However, Ming alerted Sam of the bust with enough time for Sam to order Sam's minions Tsui WaiKeung and Del Piero to dispose of the cocaine so the police would not have any real evidence on the drug deal. Now, both Wong and Sam realize that Wong each have a mole within Wong respective organizations, putting Wong in a race against time to root out the other mole. Later, Sam converses with Ming at a cinema with Yan watching. As Sam and Ming leave, Yan tries to follow Ming. At the crucial moment, Yan's phone rings and Yan is forced to back off, thus losing Yan's chance to capture Ming. At the same time, Yan and Ming are both struggling with Yan double identities. Yan is starting to lose faith in himself as a cop after being a gangster for ten years while Ming, on the other hand, becomes more and more used to the life of a righteous police officer and wants to erase Ming's criminal background. Yan meets SP Wong a second time on the same rooftop unaware that Ming has Ming's subordinate, CIB Inspector B and Ming's team tracking Ming down. Sam, after getting intel from Ming, sends Keung, Del Piero and a gang of henchmen to confront Keung. Inspector B informs Ming and B sends an OCTB squad to attempt to save Wong. Yan eventually escapes the building by taking the crane but Wong is caught by Del Piero and is thrown off the roof. As Yan is about to escape, Wong witnesses Wong's fall to death, and is stunned. As the police close in, a shootout between the police and Triads breaks out, resulting in the death of 3 Triads, one of whom is Del Piero. In the aftermath of the gunfight, the OCTB squad arrives with Ming and Wong's secondincommand Inspector Cheung on the scene, but Ming are too late to save Wong. Yan and Keung manage to escape from the gunfight. As Keung drives away with Yan, Keung crashes the car, and finding that Keung is wounded from the gun battle, Keung dies in Yan's arms. Eventually, Ming retrieves Wong's old cellphone and makes contact with Yan. Keung reach a deal to foil another one of Sam's drug deals. Inspector Cheung does not want to cooperate with the operation at first because of Wong's death, but Cheung is later convinced by Ming to go ahead with the operation. With Yan's help, Sam's drug deal is interrupted and Sam is killed by Ming. Many of Sam's other gangsters are arrested. Everything seems to work according to the plan Yan could now return to Yan's true identity as a police officer and Ming has successfully erased Ming's criminal connections by eradicating Sam and Sam's gangs. However, back at the police station, Yan discovers Ming was the mole, and leaves immediately. Ming realizes what has happened, and erases Yan's identity from the police computer records. Yan spends an evening with Yan's therapist Lee, whom Yan was falling in love with, and sends a compact disc to Ming which is inadvertently intercepted by Yan's wife Mary with a recording that Sam kept between himself and Ming. The two agree to meet on the rooftop of the building where Wong was murdered earlier. Yan disarms Ming without resistance. Yan holds a gun to Ming's head as rebuke and as reply to Ming's plea for forgiveness to remain a policeman. Inspector B arrives on the scene shortly afterwards and commands Yan to release Yan's boss. The film ends with Yan entering a lift backwards with Ming hostage, when Ming is suddenly shot in the head and killed by Inspector B as Ming moved Ming's head from behind Ming. Inspector B reveals that B was also a mole for Sam. B asks Ming to watch out for B, since their boss is already dead. As B and Ming enter the lift going down to the lobby, Ming shoots Inspector B dead, likely out of B's desire to eradicate traces of B's past and become a good guy police officer. The original ending climaxes with Ming identifying himself to the police as an officer, and paying homage to Yan at Ming's funeral, where Ming is buried next to Superintendent Wong. Inspector Cheung and Dr Lee are present as well. A flashback reaffirms the point that Ming wished Ming had taken a different route in Ming's life. Alternate Ending The alternate ending has Ming exit the lift to be informed by Inspector Cheung that the police force have found evidence that B was a mole. Ming hands Lee Ming's badge and is arrested without protest.