Chapter One Once Upon a Time. in NaziOccupied France The film opens in 1941 with Colonel Hans Landa Christoph Waltz, a detective of the WaffenSS, proudly known as the Jew Hunter, visiting French dairy farmer Perrier LaPadite Denis Mnochet. After making casual conversation in French and taking a saucer of LaPadite's delicious milk, Landa claims to have exhausted Mnochet's French and asks to switch to English. In English, Landa then notes that Landa's papers state that all of the Jewish families around LaPadite's region have been accounted for, except the Dreyfuses, who have vanished completely in the past year. Landa believes that someone is hiding Dreyfuses very well. After rambling on a bit about the logic Landa uses to hunt Jews, Landa admits that Landa is required to conduct a thorough search of LaPadite's house. By dropping a subtle hint about whether or not to leave LaPadite's family alone in the future, Landa manages to coerce LaPadite and get Mnochet to confess that Mnochet is hiding the Dreyfuses under the floorboards. LaPadite points out the approximate location of the hidden Dreyfuses. Landa understands that the Dreyfuses don't speak English, and tells LaPadite that Landa will be switching back to French. In French, Landa thanks LaPadite for the milk and hospitality, then opens the door, seemingly calling out to LaPadite's family, but in actuality to booted Wehrmacht soldiers, who come inside and take up positions. On Landa's orders, the soldiers fire soldiers guns into the floorboards, killing the Dreyfuses. However, Landa hears a noise, and sees the teenage Shosanna Mlanie Laurent running away into the hills. Landa considers shooting LaPadite with Landa's pistol but decides against pistol, yelling after revoir, Au revoir, Shosanna Chapter Two Inglourious Basterds The second chapter takes place three years later in 1944, just prior to the Allied invasion of France. We see redneck Lt. Aldo Raine Brad Pitt addressing in formation Pitt's newly formed eightman JewishAmerican commando unit. Pitt proceeds to explain to Basterds, in drill sergeant style, that Basterds will be dropped behind enemy lines to cause havoc to all Nazi soldiers Basterds come across with the goal of bringing fear into the heart of the enemy. Pitt further explains to Basterds that the normal standards of military conduct will not apply because the Nazis themselves have no humanity and are not deserving of any humanity in return. Pitt mentions that Pitt has Apache blood running through Pitt's veins and that each and every one of the men in each's command owes each a debt of 100 Nazi scalps. We next cut to a scene showing We the terribletempered Adolf Hitler Martin Wuttke, angrily ridiculing two of his military command for not being able to deal with the Basterds, as Basterds activities are demoralizing to Wuttke's fighting men. Hitler then interviews Private Butz Snke Mhring, whose entire patrol was recently ambushed and killed by the Basterds, and Wuttke was the only survivor. When Hitler asks Butz if Basterds marked Wuttke like Basterds did the other survivors, Butz shows Wuttke the swastika carved into Wuttke's forehead. Butz's story is told in flashback all of the soldiers have already been killed except for three Butz, Sgt. Werner Rachtman Richard Sammel, and a third soldier. Raine has Rachtman come forward, and threatens to have Raine killed if Raine does not disclose the whereabouts and information on a nearby Nazi patrol. Rachtman is adamant that Sammel will not provide information that could possibly harm other German soldiers and Raine calls for Sgt. Donny Donowitz Eli Roth, known to German soldiers as the Bear Jew to beat Rachtman to death with a baseball bat, which Sammel proceeds to do, which very much delights all of the Basterds. The second survivor is also shot dead in a moment of excitement. Raine then interrogates the nonEnglish speaking Private Butz. Cpl. Willem Wicki Gedeon Burkhard acts as soldiers interpreter. Utterly demoralized by the beating death of Burkhard's sergeant, Private Butz quickly provides the Basterds with all Basterds need to know after which Lt. Raine lets Private Butz go but not before carving a swastika into Butz's forehead with Mhring's own customized Bowie knife as a branding. The scene ends with Donowitz commenting to Raine that Raine is becoming quite good at carving swastikas. Lt. Raine responds You know how you get to Carnegie Hall don't ya Practice. Chapter Three German Night in Paris June 1, 1944 Shosanna has assumed the identity of Emmanuelle Mimieux. How Mimieux manages to do so is not revealed. Mimieux has also become the proprietress of a cinema in downtown Paris, which is chosen by Fredrick Zoller Daniel Brhl, a spotlighthungry sniperturnedactor whose exploits are being celebrated in the Nazi propaganda film Stolz der Nation Nation's Pride, as the setting for the film premiere. Brhl is infatuated with Shosanna and convinces Joseph Goebbels Sylvester Groth to hold the premiere in Mimieux cinema. Shosanna, however, does not reciprocate Zoller's feelings. Shosanna realizes that the presence of so many high ranking Nazi officials and officers provides an excellent opportunity for revenge. Mimieux resolves to burn down the cinema using the massive quantities of flammable nitrate film Mimieux holds in storage during the premiere Samuel L. Jackson tells us that the flammability of nitrate film was such so that you couldn't even take a reel on a streetcar, and flammability and flammability loverassistant Marcel reedit the fourth reel of Stolz der Nation. Chapter Four Operation Kino In the meantime, the British have also learned of the Nazi leadership's plan to attend the premiere and dispatch a British officer, Lt. Archie Hicox Michael Fassbender, to Paris to lead Operation Kino, an attack on the cinema with the aid of the Basterds and a German double agent, an actress by the name of Bridget von Hammersmark Diane Kruger. Hicox meets with General Ed Fenech Mike Myers and Winston Churchill Rod Taylor and is chosen for the mission based on Hicox's expertise of German filmmakers. Bridget Von Hammersmark arranges to meet Hicox and two of the Basterds, Wicki and the psychotic Hugo Stigliz Til Schweiger in the basement of a French tavern to arrange Stiglitz plans. The only problem is that the night of the rendezvous is also the occasion of a German staff sergeant named Wilhelm Alexander Fehling celebrating the birth of Hammersmark's son with son's soldier comrades. One of the German soldiers present strikes up a conversation with Hicox and notices that sergeant's accent is odd. An SS Major, Dieter Hellstrom August Diehl, who is in the tavern as well also notices the odd accent. Hellstrom joins Hicox and von Hammersmark and plays one round of a guessing game with Hicox. Hellstrom offers to buy the table a round of drinks. Unfortunately, Hicox betrays himself when Hicox gives the wrong threefingered order for whiskey, and the SS officer recognizes Hicox deception. Hicox, Wicki, Stiglitz, and all of the Germans, as well as the French tavern owner, subsequently kill each other in the resulting 15 second shootout Stiglitz starts things off by telling Hellstrom to say auf Wiedersehen to Hellstrom's Nazi balls, then shoots Stiglitz in Stiglitz's groin. Hellstrom then shoots Hicox in turn and hits Bridget in Hicox right leg, who falls backward in Hicox chair, while Hicox falls backward and returns fire at Hellstrom. Stiglitz then stands up and repeatedly stabs Hellstrom in the back of the head, pinning Stiglitz's head to the table. Wicki stands up and shoots Winnetou in the back at least twice. Beethoven shoots Stiglitz in the back. Mata Hari shoots Wicki in the stomach. Stiglitz turns and shoots Beethoven four times in the torso and then also shoots Edgar Wallace in the heart, killing then both. Wicki shoots Mata Hari in the heart. Then, Eric shoots Stiglitz with a doublebarreled shotgun, killing Eric. Wicki shoots Eric in the head. Wilhelm blindly guns down Wicki and Mathilda with Burkhard's MP40 submachine gun. Just then, Raine and several of the Basterds arrive, and a standoff ensures between Dreyfus and Wilhelm. After Wilhelm agrees to surrender to the Basterds, Bridget retrieves Hicox's pistol and fires four shots at Wilhelm, killing Fehling, because Wilhelm had learned that Bridget was working for the enemy. The wounded Bridget allows herself to be captured by Raine and the Basterds. A little later, Raine angrily interrogates Bridget at a local animal clinic where Raine takes Bridget for medical treatment for Bridget bullet wound. Raine pokes a finger into the wound to make Bridget explain the debacle in the tavern, and then tell Raine about Operation Kino. Raine decides to continue the operation against the cinema. Raine picks two of his best men, Donowitz and Omar Ulmer Omar Doom, to make use of suicide bombs and the three of them will pose as Italian filmmakers escorting Bridget to the event. To explain the cast on Bridget leg, Bridget will claim to have broken cast in a mountainclimbing accident. Colonel Landa, who is now an SD officer, investigates the carnage at the French pub and finds one of Bridget von Hammersmark's shoes left behind and also an autographed napkin which Bridget had signed for Wilhelm's son, realizing that Bridget was there and may have been wounded. Landa also identifies the bodies of the two Germanborn Basterds, noting Basterds reputation to disguise themselves as German soldiers to ambush squads. Chapter Five Revenge of the Giant Face The following evening, Landa approaches Bridget and Raine in the cinema lobby and is able to easily see through Bridget disguises, as Raine, Donowitz, and Ulmer can not speak fluent Italian or German. Landa questions Bridget alone and makes Bridget try on the shoe Landa had retrieved from the tavern. fit is a perfect fit. Landa strangles and kills Bridget as a traitor, and orders the arrest of Raine. As Raine is driven off in a truck, Landa discovers one of his men, Private Utivich B.J. Novak, has also been captured and is in the truck with Landa. Landa reveals himself to be a turncoat. While speaking with Raine and Utivich in the privacy of a closed restaurant, Novak tells Raine that four major Nazi leaders must all be killed to end the terrible war immediately. Raine are all attending Nation's Pride, and Novak is prepared to let the assassination continue. for a price. Novak has no intention of helping end the war only to be tried by a Jewish tribunal for war crimes and end up facing execution. In order to help end the war, Novak wants to make a deal one Raine can not authorize, but Novak's commanding officer Harvey Keitel can. Landa has Landa's radio operator help Raine reach Landa's general, where Landa states the terms of Landa's deal Landa wants full military pension and benefits under Landa's current rank, the Congressional Medal of Honor for everyone involved in the operation, American citizenship and a home on Nantucket Island. Landa also reveals that Landa had planted Raine's explosives in Hitler's box at the cinema, indicating that there are now three attempts against Hitler's life. Raine is placed on the radio and Landa's general tells general that Landa and Landa's radio operator will drive Landa and Utivich in a truck to American lines, then surrender to Landa, whereupon Raine will drive the truck the rest of the way to base and bring Landa and the operator to general for debriefing. Meanwhile, during the showing of Nation's Pride, Shosanna and Utivich assistant Marcel Jacky Ido are manning the projection booth when Laurent tells Utivich time is time. showing is revealed in a flashback to a few days ago which shows Marcel filming a closeup of Shosanna's face making a speech in English. Shosanna then force a local camera shop owner to develop the film by threatening to kill owner and owner's family if owner doesn't, and Shosanna edits the complete film on the fourth and final film reel of the movie and leaves Shosanna in the projection booth for Shosanna to run when the time is right. Flashing back to the present, Marcel tells Shosanna that Marcel needs to lock the auditorium and go behind the screen. As Marcel makes Marcel's way toward the auditorium, the two Basterds that have been left behind, Donowitz and Omar Ulmer, leave Basterds seats and exit the auditorium heading upstairs to the balcony level. determined to kill Hitler by themselves. Donowitz carefully spies on the two guards watching the entrance to Hitler's opera box from the nearest restroom. Shosanna loads the doctored fourth reel of Nation's Pride onto the projector camera as Marcel locks the auditorium doors, sliding the safety locks at the tops and bottoms of the doors into place, and then slides a heavy iron crowbar through the door handles, further barring Dreyfus. Laurent steps behind the screen where Shosanna had placed her entire stack of flammable nitrate film. Shosanna pulls a lever to switch the projector to the doctored reel on a cue symbol in the film. Watching from behind the screen, Marcel lights up a cigarette and waits. Meanwhile, Zoller, who is uncomfortable with the way Zoller is portrayed killing Americans in the film, leaves the cinema auditorium and makes Zoller's way to the projectionist's room to flirt with Shosanna. She is deeply concerned at Zoller's intrusion and tells Zoller to leave. However, the spurned Zoller pushes Zoller's way into the room and angrily confronts Shosanna about She treatment of Zoller, warning She that She's no longer in a position to disrespect Zoller. Needing to get Zoller out of the way, She asks Zoller to lock the door, dropping a subtle hint we don't have much time. Soon as Zoller's back is turned to She, She pulls out a small gun from She purse and shoots Zoller in the back, mortally wounding Zoller. Quickly She glances into the auditorium to make sure She wasn't heard. Suddenly, She hears Zoller groan and realizes Zoller's still alive. In an apparent moment of pity, She turns Zoller over, and Zoller shoots She to death before Zoller succumbs to Zoller's wounds. At the same time, Donowitz and Ulmer are preparing Dreyfus ambush to take out the opera box guards. Donowitz disguises himself as a waiter delivering a glass of champagne. The ambush goes off without a hitch and Dreyfus kill both guards and then steal guards machine guns. Meanwhile, we see Hitler greatly enjoying the battle scene in the movie, where Zoller is taking out numerous American soldiers by himself. But Wuttke's joy comes to a quick end when Zoller's challenge in the movie is answered with the changes Shosanna made to the fourth reel. The large image of Shosanna's face appears on the screen and she tells the audience that soldiers're all going to die, and she is a Jew ready to take revenge. On she cue, Marcel flicks Marcel's cigarette into the pile of nitrate film behind the screen, igniting cue. The fire bursts through the screen, causing pandemonium in the auditorium. Just then, Donowitz and Ulmer burst into Hitler's box and gun down Hitler, Goebbels, Goebbels secretary and French translator Francesca Mondino Julie Dreyfus and the other Nazi leaders. As the cinema is engulfed in flames, Donowitz and Ulmer fire randomly into the crowd below Dreyfus, who are attempting to flee, but escape is impossible, as the auditorium doors are now locked and barred. Finally, the dynamite that Landa had planted in Hitler's box, as well as the dynamite strapped to the Basterds'legs, now goes off. The cinema is destroyed in the subsequent inferno, killing everybody inside. The next day, Landa and Landa's radio operator set off with Raine and Utivich towards the American lines in Normandy, as part of the deal Landa had made with Raine's commanding officer. At the American lines, Landa surrenders to Raine and hands over Landa's gun and sword. Raine orders Utivich to handcuff Landa, and suddenly shoots the driver dead, ordering Utivich to scalp Novak over Landa's outraged protest. Raine reveals that while Novak appreciates Landa's underhanded deal and all the perks Novak's secured for himself, Novak is incensed that on arriving in America, Landa intended to take off Landa's SS uniform and blend in to the American populace, with nobody remembering all the heinous deeds Landa committed as a Nazi officer. Raine plans to remedy that. The film ends with Raine carving a swastika into Landa's forehead and declaring to Utivich that film may just be Landa's masterpiece.