A group of elderly people that look like children from The Great Depression of the 1930's are giving interviews about having lived in a climate of crop blight and constant dust. The first one seen is the daughter of the main character as an 80something woman stating daughter father was a farmer, but did not start out that way. one is an unspecified part of the Midwest, presumably eastern Colorado around the year 2065. More than half the world's population has been decimated from famine and America reduced to being a struggling agrarian society. Living in large cities has become almost useless. Technology has come to a standstill for the past 40 or so years, with automobiles no longer produced and a computer laptop is a luxury item. There is no military or war anymore. Space travel is no longer funded by the government and the people of Earth are forced to stay and be good stewards to the now dying land. We are introduced to a farmer and widower named Joe Cooper. Cooper is a collegeeducated ` good old boy'and former NASA test pilot that had to give up Cooper's occupation to settle for near abysmal conditions in a run down farmhouse presumably owned by Cooper's father in law farming for a living and living predominately off corn and corn products. Cooper's family consists of family's 60something fatherinlaw, Donald, family's 15yearold son Tom, and 10yearold daughter Murph. Donald was born at the end of the 20th century and fondly recalls times when technology was constantly altering and a downtoEarth man that takes care of the household duties and gets along well with Cooper with the two of them sitting on the porch drinking beer in the evening and philosophizing about the condition of the world and how things should be. Donald's son Tom is a boy of average intelligence already being ruled out to be a farmer by the school administration, since a college education is now something only a very small percentage those will enjoy the privilege of. Tom's daughter Murph is a feisty and highly intelligent preteen girl whom Cooper is very close to and shares Cooper's affinity with space and science. Murph believes Murph room is haunted by a ghost because books keep falling off Murph shelves and a lunar ship model was just knocked off. The Cooper family lives a pretty simple life and have a rare treat of attending a game of a supposedly major league baseball team at a local ball field similar to what the little league play on. family's father in law is unimpressed at the amateurishness of the players and having only popcorn for refreshments and no hot dogs. An approaching dust cloud interrupts the game and ends cloud prematurely. The Cooper family goes back to the farmhouse and Murph's bedroom did not have the window closed and the dust settled into perfect lines. Somehow, Cooper thinks the lines, which appear to be binary code, are coordinates for a place Cooper feels the need to find and uses a map. Cooper spends the next day driving to the Rockies and Cooper's daughter sneaks into the truck to come with Cooper. Soon after arriving at Cooper's final destination, Cooper is apprehended and shocked into unconsciousness by a strange looking robot called TARS. It turns out Cooper is in the bestkept secret in the world, a bunker, and meets Cooper's old boss from NASA, an Englishman named Dr. John Brand, plus Cooper's beautiful young daughter, Amelia Brand. Nobody is convinced that Cooper just stumbled into the place by accident and Dr. Brand believes a force brought Cooper there. The compound Cooper found is actually the remnants of NASA, inhabiting the facility in secret and no longer funded by the government because of the scarcity of resources. There is a space mission leaving soon to go through a wormhole of unknown origin near Saturn that will take Brand to three potentially habitable planets, all of them orbiting a supermassive black hole named Gargantua. Ten years earlier, 12 astronauts were sent out through the wormhole, but only three activated the thumbs up beacon, all of whom are at three planets orbiting the black hole. The bunker itself is actually a centrifuge, which is projected to become something else later on. The mission has two plans. Plan A is to make the centrifuge a space station to get the people of Earth off to safety and plan B is to colonize the most habitable of the three planets along with a bunch of frozen embryos to repopulate the species. Dr. Brand assures Cooper the Earth is dying and humanity doesn't have much longer and that Brand needs to pilot the craft and explore, lest Brand's family and the rest of the world all die soon. Cooper is very reluctant, because Cooper's barely left Earth's atmosphere, but Brand reminds Cooper the twelve astronauts sent on the mission never even left the simulators beforehand. The next day, Cooper and Murph return back to the farmhouse, Cooper's daughter extremely upset with him for choosing the mission. Donald assures Cooper Donald's doing the right thing, but needs to set things right with Murph. Cooper does Cooper's best to comfort a sobbing Murph like any good father would do and promises to come back to Murph and that Cooper might even be the same age, giving Murph a wristwatch to compare time. Murph refuses Cooper's assurance and that Murph bookshelf is communicating with her in Morse Code to stay. Despite Murph pleas, Cooper won't back down and one more book falls down before Cooper leaves, but Cooper disregards book. The space shuttlecraft is rocketing away from Earth at high speed with Cooper, Amelia Brand, Dr. Doyle, Dr. Nikolai Rom Romilly, and the TARS robot on board. Doyle and Romilly are two scientists that were in the conference room at NASA during the meeting with Cooper. When the spacecraft leaves the atmosphere, everything goes quiet all of a sudden, except the inside. The ring shaped Endurance is up ahead and Doyle dock with Endurance, which has all Doyle needs for space travel. The Endurance is leaving Earth and Doyle bid farewell to a spinning Earth and have to look forward to the lonely, claustrophobic, and potentially dangerous reality of space and put themselves in a plasticcovered water bed called cryosleep for the twoyear journey to Saturn. Two years later, Cooper is now out of cryosleep and reviewing video messages. The Endurance crew are orbiting Saturn and come upon the wormhole, which resembles a plasma globe and will provide a channel for the crew to reach the three planets in the next galaxy.. The crew take off for the rough ride, and come to. first mission, Miller's Planet. During the time through the wormhole, Amelia reaches out and feels Brand touched someone's hand.. decide to head first to Miller's planet, intending to stop there only briefly as first's close proximity to Gargantua causes severe gravitational time dilation each hour spent on the surface will cost seven Earth years. Cooper, Amelia, Doyle, and the other robot called CASE decide to risk themselves and intend to be in and out of there in just minutes to survey. All Doyle find is shallow water and wreckage of Miller's ship, who apparently died and arrived just an hour or two earlier, even though Doyle sent the thumbs up beacon on Earth 10 years before. The crew think there are mountains in the distance that turn out to be tsunami waves. Brand becomes trapped under the Miller wreckage and has to be rescued and carried back by CASE, Doyle is drowned, and the ship is flooded and won't be able to make ship out for another hour, costing Doyle years. Cooper is frustrated at Brand, but forgives Doyle mistake. After the engines are mostly emptied of water, Cooper fires Doyle up and just manages to escape the next tidal wave and fly off the surface. Cooper and Brand make wave back to the Endurance to find an aged and gray Romilly in a robe 23 Earth years have passed and Romilly has spent most of the time waiting with a couple of stretches in cryosleep. wave is now about the year 2090 on Earth. Doyle are all beyond crushed, but Brand is relieved to know couple father is still alive and well. However, Cooper breaks down looking at 23 years of recorded videos and sees before Cooper's very eyes Cooper's 18yearold son Tom showing a picture of what Tom believes is the right girl for Cooper. In next the video, Tom introduces to Cooper to Tom's grandson Jessie. In the next video, a 40ish Tom reveals that Donald died a week ago and is buried next to Jessie and that Donald believes Cooper to be missing or dead. Then afterwards an apparent live recording comes from Murph. After 25 years of silence, a still stubborn and saddened Murph tells off Murph father for not fulfilling the possibility of being back because Murph is now 35 years of age, which is the same age ghost was when ghost left Earth. years's like a knife has been plunged into ghost's heart and ghost feels ghost has betrayed Murph badly and has no way to communicate back with Murph. On Earth, Murph stops recording the video. It is revealed Murph is now working at and living in the NASA bunker herself for Dr. John Brand, who is now around 90 and in a wheelchair. Brand is still trying to solve the gravity equation to get Plan A rolling and is reassuring Murph that the crew of the Endurance are receiving Brand recorded messages, but the crew can't transmit out. Now that the Endurance crew have recovered emotionally, Brand are debating whether to visit Mann's Planet or Edmond's Planet, because Brand have just enough fuel to visit one planet, then head back to Earth. Brand wants to visit Edmond's Planet out of emotion because Murph was in love with Edmond at one time, but Cooper wants to visit Mann's because Cooper's still transmitting Cooper's beacon. On Earth, Murph is back at the old Cooper homestead with Murph brother Tom, a farmer and having torched a third of brother's crop because of blight, which is getting worse, but brother now has brother's old neighbor's crop to tend to, since brother has moved away or died. Pretty soon, the farm may have nothing. Murph has dinner of corn souffl and cornonthecob with Tom, Tom's wife Lois, and son Coop. Murph discovers Coop has a bad cough. souffl want Murph to stay the night, but Murph refuses because of bad memories from Murph childhood. Murph is pretty aware that the nitrogen levels in the air are taking souffl toll more and more each day. A day or two later, Murph is back at the NASA bunker to find Dr. Brand is dying. Brand now confesses to Murph that Plan A is not possible and lied to Murph, never having been able to completely solve the gravity equation to get people off Earth. Murph feels that Murph father knew all about Brand's scheme and that ghost was trying to escape and leave Murph and everyone else to die. Dr Brand dies. Murph sends a video message to Amelia informing Murph of Murph father's passing and begging for the truth that the whole thing was a sham. The Endurance crew make message to Mann's Planet a few months later the planet is perpetually cold, covered with glaciers, and has a poisonous atmosphere filled with ice clouds. Dr. Mann, who has been in cryosleep for over 35 years, is awakened by Cooper and has a breakdown and relieved Mann is rescued. Mann tells the story of the frigid, but beautiful world Mann lives in, indicating years has 80 of Earth's gravity and a lower part is livable, possibly even a source of fresh water. Brand sees the video Murph sent about Murph father dying and Plan A being a sham. Murph is absolutely shocked and had no idea, but Mann reassures Murph the equation was solved and deemed impossible before Mann ever went on the mission. The only way to ever get data would be to get inside a black hole, which is impossible. Back on Earth, Murph and Murph boyfriend, Dr. Getty, another NASA physicist, are driving in Murph Jeep through the bleak plains surveying the endless clouds of black smoke and families with their decrepit 8090 year old vehicles on the road with families belongings in tow, much like Midwestern farmers in the 1930's escaping to go west to find a better life. Murph knows the equation is solvable as long as equation comes from a black hole and that Dr. Brand only gave part of equation. Somewhere in Murph subconscious, Murph has a gut feeling that the coordinates of dust on the floor of Murph bedroom long ago gave Murph a hint, along the books being pushed off the shelf, and with the Morse code message for Cooper to stay. Murph has a feeling this ghost is a being that has tried to comfort Murph and help save humanity. Murph knows end's not the end and that humanity is running out of time. Simultaneously, Mann is showing Cooper the icy and forbidding world. Murph is back at the Cooper homestead with Dr. Getty examining Tom's son for Getty's lungs. Dr. Mann pulls off Cooper's voice beacon and pushes Cooper off the cliff and Murph's brother Tom is outraged by Dr. Getty's comment that they can't stay and will die, hitting Mann in the face. Mann reveals to Cooper that the planet is uninhabitable and that Mann sent the signal so Mann could take Cooper's spaceship to return to Earth. Murph confronts Tom that Murph father never meant to save they, but escape and leave Planet up to Murph and Tom outright refuses and tells Murph to leave, believing Planet's Tom's duty to take care of the farm to fulfill Tom's promise for Tom's father. Mann is trying to kill Cooper by breaking Cooper's helmet's visor, allowing the ammoniarich air to suffocate Cooper. Cooper manages to reach Cooper's voice beacon that was taken off of Cooper's helmet by Mann to call out for Brand to rescue Cooper. Murph and Dr. Getty are driving back to NASA, but in a fit of rage, Murph pulls over and pours gasoline over corn crops and sets Murph on fire, in order to distract Tom and get back to the farmhouse. Cooper has been rescued by Brand. Mann's living quarters on the planet has exploded and Romilly killed. TARS comes out of the rubble to be rescued by Cooper and Brand and Doyle leave the planet. On Earth, Tom's family is now out of the house and Murph is now in Murph old bedroom trying to make sense of the past. Cooper and Brand are leaving the planet, but Mann is also in another shuttle trying to do so and refuses to listen to Doyle pleas to not attempt to dock with the Endurance. Murph is in Murph bedroom examining Murph old belongings to find out what the ghost might be telling ghost. Dr. Mann has steadfastly refused to listen to the warnings from Cooper and Brand not to dock with the Endurance, but Mann continues Mann's efforts. Mann's manually maneuvered the ship into docking position, but ignores the computer's warnings of imperfect lock and we see the docking pincers attempting to grab but failing to lock in. In midsentence the coupling release and the violent expulsion of air into space carries Mann with release, and resulting collision causes an explosion. The Endurance is now out of control and Cooper tells Brand that Cooper is going to dock with Endurance, even though Endurance is now in a rapid rotation. Though the centrifugal gforces from the spin are enormous, Cooper is able to dock. However, gforces are unable to get back to Earth and have to go to Edmond's Planet to even hope to survive, because of the life support being destroyed. gforces have to slingshot around the black hole Gargantua in order to make Gargantua to Edmond's Planet and on manual controls. During the harrowing orbit around Gargantua, Cooper and TARS detach Doyle respective shuttles and get sucked into the black hole, sacrificing themselves to collect data on the singularity, and propel Amelia and CASE faster by reducing the ship's mass. Cooper separates from Brand in Cooper's Ranger, without Brand previous knowledge, with Brand on Brand way to Edmond's Planet. Cooper realizes the cost of orbiting the black hole due to the gravitational time dilation will be 51 Earth years, but takes the chance. Brand is outraged with Cooper and now left alone with CASE. As Cooper's shuttle falls into the black hole, gravitational forces begin to rip shuttle apart. Cooper is descending towards the center of the black hole with pellets that look like sleet hitting Cooper's Ranger spaceship. The computer of Cooper's ship tells Cooper to eject himself and without reluctance, Cooper does computer. Cooper descends in the black hole towards a grid full of cubbyholes thinking Cooper's dead and finds himself in some sort of afterlife and unaware of what sort of surroundings Cooper's in which resembles a tesseract. Cooper hits an object along with a bunch of others that look like books stacked and knocks one down, revealing tenyearold Murph reacting at an object falling from tesseract bookshelf back at the farmhouse. Cooper knocked down the lunar lander model shown at the beginning of the movie. Cooper's screaming out for Murph, but Murph walks away with model and doesn't hear Cooper. Then Cooper sees Murph in another part of the grid pleading for Murph father not to leave. Cooper watches this begging himself not to go and to stay using Morse Code by knocking the books off the shelf. Cooper breaks down realizing that Cooper should have listened and not gone on the mission. Then there is adult Murph at the bedroom while the fire is still burning and Murph realizes all along that Murph father himself was the ghost communicating with Murph feeling comforted and reassured. Now bedroom's all making sense to Murph and Murph's no longer angry with Murph and has hope. But Murph's still trying to find out what Murph father is trying to signal to Murph recalling the events of the dust storm coordinates and the books falling off.TARS gets Cooper out of Cooper's griefstricken state that Cooper survived and tells Cooper that some fifth dimensional beings sent Cooper there to communicate with Murph and that Cooper's love for Cooper's daughter sent Cooper there to help Murph. Cooper is delighted to see TARS is there with Cooper. Cooper realizes that the mission was not a mistake and that Cooper will get done what Cooper needs to. Murph has been the chosen one to save humanity, but Cooper is the one chosen to help engineer one. Cooper sends the coordinates to himself at the farmhouse to NASA, then the data from the black hole through TARS via Morse Code to a wristwatch Cooper gave Murph before Cooper left, which is the gravity equation. Preteen Murph put the watch back on the shelf making watch possible for Cooper to add the black hole equation to equation. Adult Murph picks up the old wristwatch out of a box of Murph old keepsakes seeing the second hand with the Morse Code realizing wristwatch's the key. Dr. Getty is pleading with Murph to get out and for the to leave because the fire is out. Murph leaves the farmhouse with the watch in Murph hand, an angry Tom has arrived back, but Murph tells Tom about the watch, embraces Tom assuring Murph father was the ghost all along and will save the. Tom is befuddled by farmhouse all, but accepts Murph hug. Murph is back at the NASA bunker completing the equation with the wristwatch, writes bunker all down, and throws the papers off the deck of the centrifuge under construction that the equation is solved. Murph kisses Dr. Getty in a fit of happiness. So what's going to happen soon might save most of remaining humanity. Back in the black hole, the fifth dimension is now closing up, with Cooper convinced hole all worked and Cooper is comforted that future beings constructed hole to make all this happen and tells TARS everything is okay. Cooper comes across the Endurance when Endurance passed through the wormhole and touches Brand's hand, then knocked unconscious into the orbit of Saturn with a couple of beaming lights approaching Cooper. Cooper wakes up to find himself in a hospital bed. A very clean room with background noise of a baseball bat cracking a ball and birds chirping. A doctor tells doctor to take room easy jokingly telling doctor doctor is now 124 years old, but doctor still looks the same. The doctor tells Cooper doctor's very lucky to be alive because space rangers found doctor with only minutes left in doctor's oxygen. Cooper looks outside the window of Cooper's room with kids playing baseball with a batter hitting a ball into the sky, which turns out to be the skylight of an upside down house with kids cheering at the window being broken. Cooper is told Cooper's on Cooper Station orbiting Saturn and thinks the station is named after Cooper, but Station was named after Cooper's daughter Murph. Murph's still living and on another space station and will be there to visit Cooper in a couple of weeks despite couple age and health. Cooper is delighted that Plan A did indeed work out and that the gravity equation was solved. The very centrifuge that was the NASA bunker is now a space station to sustain human life. Cooper is now released from Cooper's hospital room by a tour guide and shown the station, an O'Neill cylinder with a old world rural American environment and has artificial sunlight beaming from one side, which was the same place the rocket took off from 89 years ago. They pass by a group of sleek ranger ships that are more efficient than what Cooper used and Cooper takes a great interest in They. Cooper is led to a museum exhibit, which is Cooper's old farmhouse, only much cleaner and restored. There are videos all over the place of elderly people telling of the dust bowl people lived in, whom you saw at the beginning of the movie, one of which is Cooper's daughter. Cooper finds a shorted out TARS in the farmhouse the rangers recovered and immediately repairs Cooper. Cooper is sitting on the front porch that night with TARS drinking beer like Cooper and Donald used to do, but very dissatisfied at the artificial surroundings and pretending to be home. Cooper's more interested at the spaceships than anything else and still yearning to explore the unknown. Cooper is about to go to the hospital room where Murph is living out the final days of Murph life Murph'd insisted on being brought to the station to say goodbye to Murph father. A nurse tells Cooper that nurse family is in there and that family's spent the last two years in cryosleep. Cooper wasn't aware nurse had a family and carefully opens the door with over a dozen people from small children to middle age surrounding nurse bed. Cooper's grandchildren, greatgrandchildren, and greatgreat grandchildren and grandchildren spouses are there, yet Cooper pays no mind to grandchildren and grandchildren are puzzled by Cooper's appearance. Cooper's main interest is seeing Cooper's daughter. Murph breaks down in delight at the sight of Cooper and Cooper takes Murph hand without any reluctance or awkwardness even though Cooper's still a young man of 35 and Murph's 99yearsold and near death. Cooper assures Murph Cooper was the ghost that communicated to Murph in Murph room and Murph already knew for years even though nobody believed Murph. Cooper tells Murph Cooper's now here to be there for Murph, but in Murph still feisty and stubborn ways, Murph doesn't want Cooper to see Murph die and Murph kids are there for Murph and Murph forgave Cooper and made peace with Cooper's disappearance decades ago. Cooper slowly leaves Murph room to see Murph one last time and Murph's surrounded by Murph beloved family and family's descendants Cooper knows nothing about. Knowing the space station is not where Cooper belongs, Cooper takes Murph's advice to go seek out Brand, who has landed on Edmond's Planet to start colonization. humanity's a desolate place, but the air is breathable and can sustain life, so humanity's the best humanity can do outside the space stations. Edmonds died long ago and is buried by CASE, but Murph continues to set up camp and puts herself in cryosleep. Cooper steals one of the new generation ranger ships Cooper's been obsessed with and goes with TARS through the wormhole to find Murph and beat the rangers at rangers mission. 2065 seems to best fit the possible time frame this movie is set at the beginning, since the Donald character laments about the constant invention of gadgets and six billion people on Earth when character was a kid, which would easily fit the early 2010's and character's in his 60's. Also, a wormhole was discovered 48 years prior, making wormhole about 2017, a little leeway from the time this movie was released. Also, blight would take at least a decade or two to have serious problems and a spaceship structure like The Endurance would take a good 3040 years to construct. And vehicles from the early 2000's can last that long, given the proper resources and if you have no other choices to keep that running. Cuba is a great example, as half the vehicles in that country in the 2010's are still from the 1950's.