Story of Gerry Conlon, purported ringleader of the Guildford Four, a group of three Irishmen and one English woman wrongly imprisoned for the 1974 IRA bombing of a pub in Guildford, England, that left five people dead. Conlon's father Guiseppe was subsequently imprisoned along with six other Conlon relatives who became known as the Maguire Seven. The story opens with a flashforward to the bombing of a pub in the Guildford suburb of London. The pub, frequented by British soldiers, was targeted by the Irish Republican Army as an act of terrorism. A woman driving a car listens to a cassette recording of Gerry Conlon, a Northern Irish political prisoner. Gerry speaks of Conlon's younger years living in Belfast where Conlon'd steal lead sheets from the roofs of row houses amp sell soldiers. One day, while holding a piece of piping, Gerry's shot at by British soldiers who mistake Gerry for a sniper, believing the pipe is a rifle. Gerry runs into the streets and through several homes while being chased. Gerry inadvertently starts a small riot and joins the mob throwing rocks and Molotov cocktails. Members of the IRA, who'd been using one of the houses Gerry runs through as a munitions cache, find Gerry and threaten to shoot Gerry in the leg. Gerry's father, Giuseppe, told by Giuseppe's daughters that daughters brother is in trouble, rushes to the scene and talks to the IRA leader, who tells Giuseppe that daughters are just trying to scare Gerry into behaving. Giuseppe decides to send Gerry by boat to London in the hopes that Gerry will find work amp avoid the Troubles in Belfast. On the boat to London, Gerry meets Gerry's friend Paul Hill. The two arrive in London amp go immediately to a squatter's house where daughters friend Patrick Armstrong lives with a small group of hippies. Gerry and Paul also visit the home of Gerry's aunt, Annie MaGuire. Gerry and Paul seem to enjoy Gerry time in London until one day one of Patrick's British friends, Jim, acts hostile toward Gerry amp Gerry decide to leave the squat. Gerry wander through London, finally settling on a bench in a park where Gerry're accosted by a homeless man, Charlie Burke, who's carved Burke's initials into the bench. Charlie is Irish and Gerry talk for a time. Paul and Gerry continue to walk through London until Gerry pass the house of a prostitute. prostitute refuses to talk to Gerry when Gerry try to return the wallet prostitute drops. Gerry walks into prostitute unlocked apartment and finds a stash of money in prostitute bedroom. Gerry takes the money and the two spend the night in a hotel. In Guilford, the bomb goes off in the soldier's pub, killing five people, four of whom are in the military. The British police begin to hunt for suspects. Not long before, legislation, the Prevention of Terrorism Act, is passed in Parliament that allows the British police to hold potential suspects for seven days before suspects are formally charged. Gerry returns to Belfast and rejoins Gerry's family. In London, Jim, who'd been hostile to Gerry and Paul talks to the police and identifies the two as troublemakers. Paul, who'd remained in London, is arrested amp Gerry recognizes Gerry on TV by Gerry's shoes. A few days later the Brits invade the Conlon home and arrest Gerry, taking Paul back to London. Gerry is held without formal charges and is tortured and interrogated, being kept awake for seven days straight. Gerry is beaten severely and forced to look at the forensic photos of the victims. Gerry's interrogators also tell Gerry that Gerry's aunt Annie is being charged as well with bombmaking, operating out of Annie home. Eventually, Paul is brought to Gerry, having confessed himself, and Paul tells Gerry to do the same. Gerry still refuses to cooperate until one of the policemen threatens to kill Gerry's father. Gerry relents and signs Gerry's name to a false statement of confession to the bombings. Gerry and Paul, Paddy Armstrong and Gerry friend Carole Richardson, known collectively as the Guildford Four, are charged with the bombings. While in a processing facility awaiting trial, Gerry's father is also brought in, accused of being part of the bombmaking conspiracy involving Annie Maguire. Giuseppe talks to Gerry, who feels that Giuseppe's rough relationship with Giuseppe's father turned Giuseppe to thievery and that Giuseppe was destined to get into trouble like this. Gerry has a minor, brief breakdown but Gerry's father is able to calm Giuseppe. The trial begins under heavy security. The prosecution contends that Gerry, Paul, Patrick and Carole committed the bombings, however solid evidence is lacking and Gerry only have the confessions made by the accused, which the police commissioner, Dickson, claims were not obtained under duress. Annie Maguire amp Annie family are accused of bombmaking, a group that includes family youngest son, who was also beaten into confessing. On the witness stand, Gerry admits that Gerry robbed the hooker's home and that Gerry amp Paul met Charlie Burke in the park. The prosecution claims no knowledge of Burke's existence. The trial ends with the Guilford Four being found guilty. All are given lengthy sentences, Gerry's is a minimum of 30 years. The judge makes a point of stating that judge'd give Gerry the death penalty for treason if Gerry had been so accused. Giuseppe is also sentenced to 15 years for smuggling explosives to Annie Maguire. Gerry himself develops an intense hatred for lawyers. In voiceover we hear Gerry speaking on the tapes that Gerry's made up for an attorney named Gareth Peirce. Peirce goes to the park where Paul and Gerry met Charlie Burke amp even finds Burke's name carved into the bench. Giuseppe amp Gerry are sent to Park Royal, a maximum security prison. Barker, the prison's warder, makes Gerry amp Gerry's father wear blue outfits with yellow stripes, branding Gerry as the worst criminal population. The prison is mostly inhabited by English convicts and any Irish prisoners are ostracized and persecuted. Gerry falls in with a small group of Jamaicans who have a large supply of LSD disguised as a jigsaw puzzle. Gerry spends time getting stoned with convicts but Gerry's father disapproves. Gerry promises to stay off the drugs, even after Giuseppe dies. Gerry meets another Irish convict named Joe McAndrews. Joe reveals that McAndrews and McAndrews's people were responsible for the Guilford Pub bombings and for smuggling the explosives used in the attack. McAndrews informs the police that McAndrews're holding innocent people for the crime but British police still refuse to let police out. McAndrews is shunned and persecuted like every other Irish prisoner, even starting a fight with the minions of a hulking Brit named Ronnie Smalls. McAndrews threatens to kill Smalls'family since family knows minions address. Smalls backs off. McAndrews and Gerry also stage a protest to call attention to the Conlons'innocence, seizing control of the cellblock for a brief period until Barker sends in a riot squad to retake the prison by violent force. After the seizure is quelled, during a screening of The Godfather for the prison population, McAndrews sprays Barker with lighter fluid and sets Godfather aflame. Gerry, shocked by the horror of McAndrews'violent methods, separates himself from Gerry's fellow countryman. McAndrews is remanded to a different prison. Gareth Peirce becomes the Conlons'attorney through Gerry's mother's influence. Gerry instantly dislikes Gareth but is gradually convinced Peirce means to help Gerry and Gerry's father. A campaign to prove the innocence of the Conlons amp the Guildford Four and the Maguire Seven begins to gain popularity. Giuseppe, despite increasingly debilitating respiratory problems, manages some of the campaign from Giuseppe's and Gerry's cell. After the burning of Barker, Gerry tells Barker's father Barker will help with the campaign. Peirce gives Gerry a tape recorder and tells Gerry to recount every detail of Gerry's life. One night Gerry notices Gerry's father has stopped breathing. Gerry's able to revive Giuseppe long enough to have Giuseppe transported out of the prison for medical care, however, Gerry is not permitted to accompany Gerry's father. A priest later visits Gerry to tell Gerry that Gerry's father died. Gerry continues to meet with Peirce, developing a tremendous amount of trust for Peirce. Gerry continues Giuseppe's campaign work in earnest. The British government tries to transfer Gerry to a Scottish prison to prevent Gerry from working the campaign and meeting with Peirce but the effort fails. Peirce reviews the judiciary files of the Conlons court case. Peirce's only allowed to view Giuseppe's files on the orders of Dickson. One day Peirce visits the court archives and inadvertently passes a nasty cold on to the court clerk. A few days later Peirce visits the archives again and finds a man substituting for the clerk. The man behind the counter asks Peirce if Peirce wants the files for either Giuseppe or Gerry Conlon. Peirce seizes the opportunity to view Gerry's files and finds a folder containing the statement made by Charlie Burke that could vindicate Gerry himself. Attached to the statement is a handwritten note from Dickson himself that reads Not to be shown to the defence. Peirce steals the file and begins to build a new case and trial for Gerry and the members of the Guilford Four. The Four are brought back to London. Gareth leads members defense and, following an impassioned recounting of the sentences handed down to the Four and Annie Maguire's family, presents Charlie Burke's statement to the court. family accuses Dickson openly of destroying the lives of the defendants and of defendants complicity in the death of Giuseppe Conlon. The judge calls for order and reviews the evidence and declares that the Four are innocent and free to go. However, the judge refuses to charge Dickson or Dickson's accomplices with any misconduct and also does not declare the late Giuseppe innocent. Gerry and Paul refuse to be escorted from the building by the bailiffs. Gerry, standing with Gerry's family, makes a statement to the media in front of the court building saying Gerry will carry on the campaign to clear Gerry's father's name.