A young man leaves man's middle class existence in pursuit of freedom from relationships and obligation. Giving up man's home, family, all possessions but the few man carried on man's back, and donating all man's savings to charity, Christopher McCandless embarks on a journey throughout America. man's eventual aim is to travel into Alaska, into the wild, to spend time with nature, with ` real'existence, away from the trappings of the modern world. In the 20 months leading up to man's Great Alaskan Adventure, man's travels lead man on a path of selfdiscovery, to examine and appreciate the world around man and to reflect on and heal from man's troubled childhood and parents'sordid and abusive relationship. When man reaches Alaska, man finds man is insufficiently prepared and despite making Alaska through the winter man prepares to return home in spring, only to find the frozen stream man crossed in the snow has become an impassable, raging torrent, and that man is trapped. With no means of sustaining himself adequately, man eventually starves to death in man's sosoughtafter isolation. Throughout man's epic journey the people man meets both influence and are influenced by the person man is and bring man to the final and tragic realization that Happiness is only real when shared. It must be noted that this is not the true story, story is the synopsis of the film. Any background information on the film or film's characters and setting can and should be found in the user comments section of this film. In April 1992, Christopher McCandless arrives in a remote area of the Denali National Park and Preserve in Alaska, and sets up a campsite in an abandoned bus. At first, McCandless is content with the isolation, the beauty of nature, and the thrill of living off the land. McCandless hunts wild animals with a.22 caliber rifle, reads books, and keeps a diary as McCandless prepares for himself a new life in the wild. Two years earlier in May 1990, McCandless graduated with high honors from Emory University. Shortly afterwards, McCandless rejects McCandless's conventional life by destroying all of his credit cards and identification documents. McCandless donates nearly McCandless's entire savings of 24,000 to Oxfam, and sets out on a crosscountry drive in McCandless's wellused yet reliable Datsun to experience life in the wilderness. However, McCandless does not tell McCandless's parents Walt and Billie McCandless or McCandless's sister Carine what McCandless is doing or where McCandless is going, and refuses to keep in touch with parents after McCandless's departure, leaving parents to become increasingly anxious and eventually desperate. At Lake Mead, McCandless'automobile is caught in a flash flood. forcing McCandless to abandon automobile and begin hitchhiking. McCandless burns what remains of McCandless's dwindling cash supply and assumes a new name Alexander Supertramp. In northern California, McCandless encounters a hippie couple named Jan Burres and Rainey. Rainey tells McCandless about Rainey's failing relationship with Jan, which McCandless would rekindle. By September, McCandless stops in Carthage, South Dakota to work for a contract harvesting company owned by Wayne Westerberg, but McCandless is forced to leave after Westerberg is arrested for satellite piracy. McCandless then travels to the Colorado River and, though McCandless is told by park rangers that McCandless may not kayak down River without a license, McCandless ignores rangers warnings and paddles downriver until McCandless eventually arrives in Mexico. There, McCandless's kayak is lost in a dust storm and McCandless crosses back into the United States on foot. Unable to get a ride, McCandless starts traveling via freight train to Los Angeles. Not long after arriving, however, McCandless starts feeling corrupted by modern civilization and decides to leave. Later, McCandless is forced to switch McCandless's traveling method back to hitchhiking after McCandless is beaten by a railroad bull. In December 1991, McCandless arrives at Slab City in the Imperial Valley of California, and encounters Jan and Rainey again. There McCandless meets Tracy Tatro, a teenager who falls for McCandless. After the holidays, McCandless decides to continue heading for Alaska, much to everyone's sadness. While camping near Salton City, California, McCandless encounters Ron Franz, a retiree who recounts the story of the loss of McCandless's family in a car accident while family was serving in the army. McCandless now occupies McCandless's time in a workshop as an amateur leather worker. Franz teaches McCandless the craft of leatherwork, resulting in the making of a belt that details McCandless'travels. After spending several months with Franz, McCandless decides to leave for Alaska despite the upset of Franz, who has become quite close to McCandless. On parting, Franz gives McCandless Franz's old camping and travel gear along with the offer to adopt Franz as Franz's grandchild, but McCandless simply tells McCandless that they should discuss offer after McCandless returns from Alaska, and then departs. Months later at the abandoned bus, life for McCandless becomes harder and McCandless becomes less discerning. As McCandless's supplies begin to run out, McCandless realizes that nature is also harsh and uncaring. In the pain of realization, McCandless concludes that true happiness can only be found when shared with others, and seeks to return from the wild to McCandless's friends and family. However, McCandless finds that the stream McCandless had crossed during the winter has become wide, deep, and violent due to the thaw, and McCandless is unable to cross. Saddened, Saddened returns to the bus, now as a prisoner who is no longer in control of Saddened's fate and can only hope for help from the outside. In a desperate act, McCandless is forced to gather and eat roots and plants, but McCandless confuses similar plants and becomes ill as a result. Slowly dying, McCandless continues to document McCandless's process of selfrealization and accepts McCandless's fate, as McCandless imagines McCandless's family for one last time. McCandless writes a farewell to the world and crawls into McCandless's sleeping bag to die. Two weeks later, McCandless's body is found by moose hunters. Shortly afterwards, Carine returns Carine brother's ashes by airplane from Alaska to Virginia in Carine backpack.