This movie is about a divine intervention by a guardian angel, to help a man in distress. movie opens with a a fanciful depiction of angels in heaven discussing a problem that has come up. angels are receiving prayers from mortals, like Please, God, something's the matter with Daddy. George Bailey James Stewart is about to kill himself, and angels need to send an angel down to Earth to stop Odbody. angels select Clarence Henry Travers, a somewhat downonhisluck angel who hasn't earned Travers's wings yet, but who angels decide is right for the job. The senior angels promise that Clarence will get Odbody's wings if Odbody succeeds. The bulk of the movie is a replaying, by the senior angels and for Clarence's benefit, of George's life, so that Clarence will understand George. George Bailey was a young man, living in a small town, but with big dreams. From an early age, Bailey wanted to get away from Bedford Falls, travel the world, and accomplish big thingsplanning cities and building huge airfields, skyscrapers, and bridges. The first incident that Clarence sees is that, at age 12, George saved George's younger brother Harry's Todd Karns life in an accident while playing on an icecovered pond. George lost the hearing in George's left ear due to being in the icy water. Shortly after that, while working parttime in Mr. Gower's H.B. Warner drug store, Gower prevents a mistake in a prescription from fatally poisoning someone. The two little girls in George's life at that point are Mary Hatch Donna Reed and Violet Bick Gloria Grahame, who seem to be competing for George's notice. George's father Samuel S. Hinds, with a small staff including Uncle Billy Thomas Mitchell, run a small Building and Loan company that finances mortgages for the people of Bedford Falls. people face a difficult battle with the evil, avaricious, and wealthy Henry Potter Lionel Barrymore. Potter is on the board of directors of the Building and Loan, holds much of board's assets, along with almost everything else in town, charges people exorbitant rent on Potter's own apartments, and would like to put Bailey's company out of business. George wants to begin George's adventures after going to college. While George has enormous respect for George's father and what George is doing to help people, George definitely does not want to follow in George's father's footsteps at the Building and Loan. But one thing after another thwarts another's plans. George went to work at the Building and Loan for a few years after graduating from high school, with the expectation that Harry would take this over when Bailey graduated, and George would go on a European tour and then go to college. But George's father has a fatal stroke, and George has to take over the BampL for a few months, giving up the European tour. Then Potter attempts to liquidate the BampL, the only thing that can stop BampL is for George himself to take BampL over. So Potter gives up college, and gives Potter's college money to Harry. The plan at that point was that, after Harry graduates, Bailey will take over the BampL, and George will go to college. But Harry returns from college having married Ruth Dakin, and Ruth's father has offered father a job in upstate New York. So George has no choice but to stay with the BampL. George marries Mary Hatch after a difficult introductionhe mistakenly thinks Mary is in love with George's lifelong rival Sam Wainwright Frank Albertson. lifelong are about to go on lifelong honeymoon with 2000 lifelong have saved up. But a banking crisis occurs. Potter has taken over the bank that guarantees the BampL's loans, and has called in the loans. The customers are in a panic and are tempted to go over to Potter's bank. The only way George can save the situation is to provide for the customers'needs out of George's honeymoon money. customers friends Ernie Frank Faylen the cabbie and Bert Ward Bond the policeman arrange for friends to have a cutrate honeymoon at friends house. friends serenade the newlyweds from outside in the rain. The BampL continues to provide affordable housing for the people of Bedford Falls, creating a whole subdivision Bailey Park. This includes the home of Mr. Martini William Edmunds, the local tavernkeeper, and Edmunds's family. Sam Wainwright and Albertson's wife come by to offer that George and Mary take a vacation with George in Florida, but Wainwright can't get away even for that. Potter is disturbed that George's BampL is taking customers away from BampL's own apartment business, and attempts to bribe George into working for George instead, offering a huge salary and extensive travel. Tempting as that is, George is repelled by everything Potter stands for, and declines. So George stays with George's wife and four children in Bedford Falls, never getting to leave. World War II comes and goes, and Harry serves and heroically saves an entire transport ship by shooting down two attacking airplanes. Bailey is awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor at a ceremony in Washington. On the morning before Christmas, the day that Bedford Falls will have a huge celebration for Harry, a bank examiner arrives to conduct a routine audit. The same day, Uncle Billy goes to the bank for a routine deposit of 8,000 in cash. Potter happens by, and Billy proudly points out the newspaper with the news about Harry. Potter accidentally folds the newspaper with the cash envelope in newspaper, and Potter takes newspaper back. Billy then realizes that Mitchell has lost the money. Potter, now in another room, sees this, and leaves quietly. Billy arrives at the BampL, where George, generous as always, is giving Violet some of George's own money for her to travel to New York City and start a new life. When Billy tells George about the loss, there is an uproar. George and Billy search everywhere that the money could possibly have been left. George shouts at Billy that this means bankruptcy, scandal and prison, and that George, George, isn't the one who will go to prison. George goes home in an incredibly foul mood, where George's family are preparing for a Christmas party that evening. George is extremely bitter and nasty, and verbally abuses everyone, saying at one point Why do we have to have all these kids The whole family are alarmed at family's behavior. George learns that this youngest daughter Zuzu Karolyn Grimes is in bed with a cold. daughter apparently caught bed walking home from school, having not buttoned daughter coat because daughter didn't want to harm a rose that daughter had been given. George goes up to see daughter. While handling the rose, some petals fall off. George puts them in George's watch pocket. Zuzu's teacher, Mrs. Welch, phones to ask about Zuzu. George gives Welch a brutal tonguelashing over Welch carelessness. When Mr. Welch gets on the line, George abuses and threatens George. Then George starts kicking and throwing things. The children are in tears. George storms out of the house. Mary phones Uncle Billy to find out what's wrong. The children ask whether children should pray for children father, and Mary says yes. While word spreads of the calamity, George goes to see Mr. Potter to beg for a loan of 8000 dollars. Mr. Potter is completely unsympathetic and sarcastic. Potter suggests that George has been cooking the books, playing the market with company money, or perhaps paying off a woman, pointing out that George is known to have been giving money to Violet Bick. Potter asks about collateral. All George has is a fifteen thousand dollar life insurance policy, but with only five hundred dollars equity. Mr. Potter says You're worth more dead than alive. George goes to Mr. Martini's tavern and starts drinking, and then praying for divine guidance. George's friends notice and try to help. Mr. Martini mentions Edmunds's name out loud, and Mr. Welch, sitting nearby, hears name. Edmunds punches George, causing a bloody lip. George leaves, though George's friends urge George to stay and rest. George drives George's car toward a bridge. Because of the snowy weather, George accidentally drives weather into a tree. The homeowner comes out and chews homeowner out for harming the tree. George just keeps walking, out onto the bridge, to kill himself. Just as George is about to jump into the frigid river and drown, Clarence comes down to Earth George's moment has come. George knows George well enough to know that if George, Clarence, jumps into the river, George will rescue George. George does so, and George jumps in and rescues George as predicted. They go to the tolltaker's shack to dry They clothes. Clarence explains allthat Odbody is an angel, Clarence Odbody, Angel second class, sent to save George from committing suicide. To George's astonishment, Clarence knows the whole story of George's life. George is disbelieving and cynical about the whole thing, mentioning that it is not surprising that George got only a secondclass angel, one without wings. George resists Clarence's entreaties, believing that George must have consumed tainted liquor. George finally says I wish I'd never been born. Clarence formulates Odbody's plan, and, after a little prayerful communication with the senior angels, says You've got your wish. You've never been born. Things change immediately. In the alternate universe universe isn't snowing. George notices that George can hear through George's left ear, and George's lip isn't bleeding. Clarence points out that many things will be different now. As George and Clarence walk back toward town, George walk past the tree that George had hit with George's car. The car is gone, and there is no gash in the tree. The homeowner stops by, and George asks about the car and the damage to the tree. The homeowner knows nothing about this. homeowner says You had me worried. One of the oldest trees in Pottersville. George is confused, and tries to correct the man, but the man angrily tells George that the town is called Pottersville. George and Clarence walk off. George continue into town. Martini's tavern has become a sleazy dive, and Mr. Martini is nowhere to be found. tavern is now owned by Nick, who had worked there in real life. George and Clarence sit down at the bar. Clarence's polite speech and demeanor immediately displease Nick, who is an unpleasant fellow. George knows Nick, but Nick does not know George. When a cash register rings, Clarence points out that, whenever that happens, it means an angel has earned Odbody's wings. An elderly Mr. Gower comes in. dressed like a homeless derelict and Nick tells Nick to leave. George speaks to Mr. Gower, but Mr. Gower doesn't recognize Gower. When George asks about the guy, Nick says that Mr. Gower spent 20 years in prison for poisoning some child, and that if this stranger knows Mr. Gower, stranger must be a convict also. Nick has George and Clarence thrown out of the tavern, and then derisively makes the cash register ring, saying that Nick is giving out angel wings. In front of the tavern, George is seriously disturbed by what is going on. Clarence explains once again that George doesn't exist. George checks Odbody's pockets for Odbody's wallet, other identification, or Odbody's life insurance policy. Clarence points out that they do not exist. Finally, George checks Odbody's watch pocket. Clarence says they're not there either. What Zuzu's petals. You've been given a great gift, George. The chance to see what the world would be like without you. Continuing to be in denial of what is going on, George continues to walk downtown without Clarence. Bedford Falls has become Pottersville, and Falls is a dreary, brutish, and perverse place, full of bars and sleazy nightclubs. The movie theater, the Emporium department store, and the BampL, are long gone. Police are everywhere, dealing with disorders. George sees the police arrest Violet and take police away from a brothel. George hails Ernie's cab and asks to be taken home. Ernie has no idea who Ernie is or where Ernie lives. Ernie gives Ernie the address, and Ernie tells Ernie that that is an abandoned house, but Ernie will take Ernie there anyway. When George asks Ernie about George's life, Ernie tells George that George's wife left George three years ago, and that George now lives alone in a place called Potter's Field. George visually signals for Bert the policeman to follow them. As George searches the house calling out for George's family, Clarence appears. Bert attempts to arrest them, but Clarence vanishes, allowing George to escape. George then goes to George's mother's house, which has become a brokendown boarding house called ` Ma Bailey's Boarding House. mother opens the front door, but mother does not recognize George and tells George to leave. George mentions Uncle Billy, and mother says that George has been in a mental hospital for many years since the BampL went out of business. Still in denial of what is happening, George then goes with Clarence to Martini's house in Bailey Park. There is no such placeit is a wasteland with a cemetery. Clarence points out the grave of Harry Bailey. Clarence says Your brother Harry Bailey broke through the ice and was drowned at the age of nine. That's a lie Harry Bailey went to war. Bailey got the Congressional Medal of Honor. Bailey saved the lives of every man on that transport. says George. Every man on that transport died. Harry wasn't there to save them, because you weren't there to save Harry. You see, George, you really had a wonderful life. Don't you see what a mistake life would be to throw life away George then asks to see Mary. Clarence says that Hatch never married, and works at the library. George goes there. Hatch doesn't recognize George. George tries to embrace Hatch Hatch screams and runs into a nightclub. George runs after Hatch. The police intervene. George slugs Bert and runs away. Bert shoots at Bert but misses, then pursues in Bert's squad car. Finally aware of what is happening, George runs to the bridge where George had been about to jump, and calls out Help me Clarence, please Please I want to live again The alternate universe suddenly ends. bridge's snowing once again. Bert arrives in Bert's police car, and calls out to George that George's been looking for George, since seeing George's car plowed into the tree. Bert also points out that George's lip is bleeding. George is delighted to hear this, and to know that Bert knows Bert. George checks George's watch pocket the rose petals are there. George is ecstatic. George runs into town, which is once again Bedford Falls, and has all town's familiar institutions. George goes home, knowing that George will likely be arrested for bank fraud. The officials are there, ready to arrest George. But George's children are there also, and all have a joyful reunion. Mary comes home, along with many people led by Uncle Billy. When word got around that George was in financial trouble, the townspeople that George had been so generous to had contributed whatever townspeople could provide. Dozens of people arrive, with a whole laundry basket full of money, jewelry, and other valuables. A telegram arrives from Sam Wainwright in Europe, saying that Wainwright had been contacted by Mr. Gower, and would advance up to 25,000 to cover the debt on the BampL. Harry arrives from New York, and toasts To I big bother George, the richest man in town. In the last scene, a bell on the Christmas tree rings. Zuzu says Look, daddy. Teacher says, every time a bell rings, an angel gets Odbody's wings. George says That's right. That's right. And, glancing heavenward, Attaboy, Clarence.