It Happened One Night begins with a rich heiress named Ellie Andrews sequestered by her father on his yacht, disapproving of Andrews marriage to a famous aviator named King Westley. After an argument, heiress escapes the yacht and swims away. heiress buys a bus ticket to travel back to New York to heiress husband, where heiress meets an out of work reporter named Peter Warne. Eventually husband finds out heiress true identity from a newspaper article about heiress escape. husband offers to help heiress get to heiress destination in exchange for exclusive rights to heiress story, and secures heiress cooperation by threatening to turn heiress in to heiress father if heiress does not agree. Andrews and Warne share hotel rooms on their trip, pretending to be husband and wife to keep from arousing suspicion. Because heiress is a married woman, their put up a blanket as a barrier, with Warne referring to blanket as the walls of Jericho. One of the other bus passengers recognizes Andrews from an article offering a 10,000 reward for heiress return. While the bus is stranded in mud, the passenger offers to split the money with Warne if Warne helps Warne turn in Andrews. Warne scares the passenger away by implying that hes a professional criminal looking for 1,000,000 in ransom money and then threatens to shoot Warne when Warne becomes frightened. Warne and Andrews then leave the bus to hitchhike in case the other passenger decides to turn Warne in to the police. After Warne spend the night sleeping in hay, Andrews gets a driver to stop by flashing one of her legs, who turns out to be a robber who drives off with Warne possessions. After chasing after Andrews, Warne inexplicably returns with a bloody temple and the mans car. In the meantime, the father reluctantly agrees to allow the marriage to the aviator if aviator's daughter returns. While spending another night in a blanketpartitioned hotel room, Andrews throws herself at Warne and proposes that Warne both be together. Warne seemingly rejects her and after her falls asleep Warne drives back to New York in the middle of the night. Warne sells Warne's story about Warne's love and potential marriage to Andrews to Warne's old boss for 1000, so as not to propose to her while broke. Meanwhile, the suspicious manager of the hotel kicks out Andrews when her finds out that Warne has left. Thinking that Warne hates her, Andrews phones her father in order to turn herself in. her father picks her up with a police escort while Warne is returning just in time to see them drive by. Angry with her, Warne contacts the father about reward money. Warne agrees to go to them home while a real marriage ceremony for Andrews and the aviator is to take place. Warne only comes to collect 39.60 for Warne's expenses and not the full 10,000 and admits to the father that Warne loves Warne's daughter. The father starts to like Warne and during the ceremony manages to convince father's daughter that Warne really loves daughter and that daughter should leave the aviator. Andrews runs away during the ceremony, daughter father pays off the aviator to annul the wedding, and daughter eventually marries the reporter. The film ends in a hotel room with the walls of Jericho coming down.