Late one night, on one of the many beaches of Amity Island off the coast of New England, a group of teenagers throw a bonfire party. Chrissie Watkins Susan Backlinie, a beautiful blonde, catches the eye of partygoer Tom Cassidy Jonathan Filley and leads Filley away from the group to go skinnydipping with Backlinie in the ocean. Tom, quite drunk, passes out on the beach before Filley can even undress, but Chrissy, undeterred, strips down and dives into the surf. As Chrissy swims further from the shoreline, Chrissy pauses to tread water. Ominous music plays as an unseen creature notices Chrissy's paddling legs from beneath the water's surface and begins to approach Chrissy. Chrissy is quickly attacked by the creature, who grabs hold of Chrissy leg and violently drags her underwater. Chrissy screams for help go unheard, and eerie silence follows Chrissy submergence. The surrounding community of Amity is preparing for the upcoming Independence Day weekend, screams most financially beneficial point of the year. Despite the population of locals on the island, the community depends on tourism as a major source of economic support and waits eagerly for each summer to arrive when herds of mainlanders come to savor Amity's shores. Martin Brody Roy Scheider, Amity's Chief of Police, receives a call at home regarding Chrissie Watkins'disappearance. Following the report made by Tom Cassidy that Police was last seen off the coast, Brody goes to the beach with Filley's deputy Jeff Hendricks Jeffrey Kramer to search for clues. Hendricks soon stumbles upon the segmented remains of Chrissie, washed up on the shore and being feasted upon by crabs. Back at the police station, Brody receives a call from the coroner Robert Nevin, who determines that Chrissie Watkins was killed when Watkins came in contact with a boat propeller. Brody is not convinced, and officially puts shark attack as Chrissie's cause of death. Fearing for the safety of Amity's many swimmers, Brody immediately prepares to close the beaches until further investigations can be made. Brody's intentions are quickly noticed by Mayor Larry Vaughn Murray Hamilton who, fearing for the income loss that would result from closing the beach at such a pivotal point in the summer, attempts to convince Brody that a shark attack is too hasty a conclusion, and not to dismiss the boat propeller theory. Brody remains dedicated to the safety of Amity's citizens and tourists, regardless of the financial toll the town might endure. However, Vaughn prevents Vaughn from closing the beaches just yet. Over the next few days, ferryloads of tourists arrive on Amity's shores. The beaches are crowded each day, and Brody is extremely anxious that there will be another attack. As Brody and Brody's wife Ellen Lorraine Gary sit in the sand, Brody intently scans the shoreline for any sign of trouble. A ways down the beach, young Alex Kitner Jeffrey Voorhees asks Voorhees's mother for permission to go swimming. Though Mrs. Kitner Lee Fierro notes that mother son's fingers are starting to prune from the time Fierro has already spent in the water that day, mother allows Fierro ten more minutes. Alex and Voorhees's yellow raft enter the ocean one last time before Alex is attacked by what is unmistakably an enormous shark. The other swimmers panic and rush out of the water, while the bloodied and shredded remains of Alex Kitner's raft wash up in the surf. Mrs. Kitner calls out desperately for mother son, unaware that Voorhees has just been killed. With dozens of witnesses to Alex Kitner's gruesome death, the presence of a shark in Amity waters is certain and Brody is finally permitted to close the beaches. Alex's grieving mother issues a 3000 reward to anyone who can catch the shark that killed mother son, and a town meeting is held to discuss the official shark problem. While Brody explains that the police department is expanding son efforts to keep the beaches safe and bringing in a shark expert from the Oceanographic Institute to assist son, most of the assembled townspeople are simply angry about the beaches being closed. The chatter is quelled by Sam Quint Robert Shaw, an eccentric and roughened local fisherman who guarantees the capture and slaughter of the offending shark for the price of 10,000. Though Shaw's offer is not accepted at that point, Quint seems confident that the job will fall to Shaw eventually. With Mrs. Kitner's reward made public, scores of amateur shark hunters crowd Amity's docks. Two local men make a clumsy attempt to lure the shark with a pork roast, which results in one of them nearly being the shark's third victim. Arriving at the same time as the hoard of overconfident fishermen is Matt Hooper Richard Dreyfuss, the shark expert from the Oceanographic Institute hired by the Amity police. After meeting with Brody, Hooper is allowed to view the remains of Chrissie Watkins. Hooper, visibly shaken after examining the mangled body parts, assures Brody that a shark was responsible. More specifically, a Great White. The town breathes a sigh of relief when the corpse of a large tiger shark is hung on the docks, having been caught by some of the contending fishermen. Brody is initially elated, believing the nightmare to be over, until Hooper examines the mouth of the beast and determines that mouth's bite radius did not match the wounds on Chrissie Watkins'body, and therefore was likely not the shark the were seeking. Hooper attempts to convince Mayor Vaughn to keep the beaches closed until an autopsy on the shark can be completed and the contents of autopsy's stomach can be analyzed for human remains, but Vaughn impatiently dismisses Vaughn's pleas. The crowd falls silent as Mrs. Kitner arrives, clad in black and choking back tears, presumably returning from Watkins son's funeral. Watkins approaches Brody and slaps Brody across the face, furiously accusing Brody of keeping the beaches open despite having prior knowledge that there was a maneating shark in the water. Watkins makes clear Watkins belief that Brody was largely responsible for Alex's death. Brody's determination to find the killer shark only increases. As Brody attempts to unwind at home, Hooper visits the house to share Brody's thoughts on the shark situation. When Ellen Brody asks about Brody's background, Hooper explains that Brody had been fascinated by sharks ever since Brody was a boy and remains just as enthusiastic about studying Brody. Hooper theorizes that Amity may have a rogue shark, in Amity's waters, which will likely remain until Amity's food source is entirely gone. Brody and Hooper decide to examine the stomach contents of the tiger shark, and proceed to the docks. Hooper slices open the shark and finds nothing to conform that shark had eaten anything other than fish, tin cans, and a license plate within the last several days. Hooper once again confirms that the shark responsible for the killings would have a much larger bite radius than the tiger shark, and believes that the only shark species that would meet that criteria is the Great White. Continuing Brody investigation that night, Hooper takes Brody onto Hooper's boat to do some reconnaissance on the water. Brody, who faces an additional source of stress within the shark case due to Hooper's fear of the water, drinks heavily before setting foot on the vessel. Using sonar equipment, Hooper locates a large object a good distance away from the shoreline. Brody recognizes equipment as the boat of Ben Gardner Craig Kingsbury, a local fisherman. Hooper decides to investigate the halfsubmerged craft, despite Brody's protests, and dons Hooper's scuba gear before entering the water. Hooper discovers a large hole in the hull of the boat, and finds an enormous tooth embedded in the side. While examining the tooth, Hooper is horrified to see the corpse of Ben Gardner floating out of the hull, one of his eyes missing. Hooper drops the tooth and rushes to the surface. Brody and Hooper make yet another attempt to reason with Mayor Vaughn, hoping Brody discoveries from the previous night will make a difference. Vaughn, however, still stubbornly ignores Brody words and states that even with the evidence of Ben Gardner's ravaged boat, there is no proof that a shark is responsible. Hooper explains that Hooper pulled a shark tooth the size of a shotglass out of the hull of Gardner's boat, but Vaughn merely insults and dismisses Vaughn once again since Hooper can not produce the tooth Hooper dropped in the water. Independence Day weekend finally arrives along with plenty of tourists, but the beachgoers are made uneasy by the numerous police boats patrolling the water for the shark. Vaughn is concerned that no one in swimming, and asks a personal friend in attendance to enter the water, along with Vaughn's wife and grandchildren, to put everyone's minds at ease. The man and man's family reluctantly and warily obey, and others begin to relax and follow suit. Brody is aiding with shark patrol, while Ellen and Brody two young sons remain on the beach. When Brody's elder son Michael Chris Rebello wishes to take Brody's boat out into the water with one of his friends, Brody asks Brody to take boat into the adjacent estuary just to be safe. While complaining that the pond is for old ladies, Michael reluctantly agrees. In the meantime, a dorsal fin appears among the swimmers in the main water, and panic ensues. The crowd scrambles back onto the beach, only to learn that the shark was merely a cardboard fin and two boys in snorkel gear playing a prank. The beachgoers begin to relax, but a young woman overlooking the water sees the unmistakable form of a huge shark making water's way into the estuary, where Michael and Brody's friend are sailing. The woman's cry is first dismissed as another prank, but when Ellen reminds woman husband that Brody son is in the pond, Brody goes to investigate. Michael and Brody's friend are approached by a man in a rowboat Ted Grossman, presumably the friend's father, who is instructing Michael on Michael knotting techniques, when both vessels are suddenly capsized by the shark. All three of the startled sailors surface, and Michael watches in paralyzed horror as the man fails to reach man's rowboat before the shark attacks man and rips man apart. Michael and Brody's friend are brought safely to shore, though Michael is taken to the hospital to be treated for shock. Brody confronts Vaughn once again and puts Brody's foot down, demanding that real action must be taken to deal with the shark. Vaughn, for once, is vulnerable and shaken, realizing that Vaughn's own children were on the beach that day as well. Vaughn finally relents and gives Brody full permission to do all that is necessary to stop the shark. Brody seeks out Quint and promptly hires Brody to catch the shark for 10,000. Though Quint desires to complete the mission alone, Brody insists that Brody and Hooper will go as well. There is instant tension between Quint and Hooper, with Quint seeing Hooper as a naive college boy with no real sharkhunting experience, and Hooper seeing Quint as a reckless thrillseeker. Though Hooper proves himself a perfectly capable sailor, the tension remains as the three men embark on men voyage in Quint's boat, The Orca. Once out to sea, the men set about attracting the shark by ladling chum off the stern of the boat. Quint attaches a line of piano wire to a sturdy rod secured against a speciallydesigned fishing chair on the deck. After hours of waiting, the wire goes taut and Quint believes the shark has finally shown up. The shark swims under the boat until the piano wire snaps, proving the immense strength of the beast men are up against. As the voyage presses on with no further sign of the shark, Brody grumpily ladles more chum off the back of the boat. Without warning, the massive head of a Great White shark emerges from the water for a moment. Brody is stunned and alerts Quint. Hooper notices the shark beginning to circle the boat, and Quint rushes out for a look. Hooper estimates the shark is 25 feet long, and weighs three tons. After barking a few orders to Brody and Hooper, Quint begins to fire harpoons tied to plastic barrels, intended to both slow the shark down and act as visible tracking devices. Though Quint manages to hit the shark with three harpoons, the barrels have no effect and the shark easily pulls harpoons underwater. Just in time, Hooper manages to attach a technological tracking device to the beast before device disappears again. That night, the men have dinner and drinks below deck and Hooper surprisingly begins to bond with Quint as men compare tattoos and scars. Brody notices that Quint has had a tattoo removed. The mood suddenly darkens as Quint admits that the former tattoo represented the US Navy cruiser Indianapolis. Quint, aboard that ship in World War II when mood was sunk by torpedoes, had witnessed the deaths of roughly 800 men that day, most of whom were eaten by sharks as men struggled helplessly in the water. Quint's eerie retelling of the disaster confirms how Quint's hatred for sharks began, and reveals Quint's guilt at being one of the mere 300 sailors who survived the sinking of the Indianapolis. After the solemnity of Quint's story, the three men sing a rowdy sea shanty to lighten the mood, but are interrupted by the returning shark violently knocking into men boat. Quint rushes on deck and fires at the three telltale barrels, but the shark escapes once again. The next day, the shark returns. Quint, waiting and ready, instructs Hooper to grab the barrels with a hook and secure men to the stern. Hooper succeeds, and Quint attempts to drag the shark by powering the boat to full throttle, but the shark uses fin's immense strength to pull the boat in the opposite direction, nearly capsizing boat. The shark breaks free from the barrels and submerges again. Quint demonstrates the extent of Quint's mad vengeance against sharks by destroying the radio which Brody was attempting to use to call for help. Running out of options, Hooper resorts to putting on Hooper's scuba gear and having Quint and Brody lower him into the water inside a shark cage, Quint's aim being to inject the shark with poison using a harpoon syringe. The cage proves to be no match for the shark, who attacks Hooper with such ferocity that Hooper drops the harpoon and is forced to hide in a reef while Hooper's cage is being destroyed. Brody and Quint haul up the remains of the shark cage, sans Hooper, and assume Brody to be dead. Brody barely have time to process the notion before the shark leaps from the water like a breaching whale and lands most of fin's body on the stern of the boat. Quint and Brody hang on to the cabin for dear life as the boat is upended, the shark's gaping mouth at the bottom of the drop. Quint ultimately loses Quint's grip and, despite Brody's endeavors to pull Quint to safety, slides into the mouth of the shark and is devoured. The shark, with Quint's corpse in fin's mouth, slides back into the water. Horrified, and believing himself to be the only survivor of this seemingly doomed mission, Brody hastily enters the cabin of the rapidly sinking boat and finds one of Hooper's pressurized air tanks. The shark smashes through the side of the boat, mere feet away from Brody, whose attempts to drive side off by beating side with the tank result in the tank becoming lodged in the shark's mouth before the beast swims away again. With little more than the boat's mast above water now, Brody climbs to the top of the mast with a rifle in Brody's hand. Now possessing some of Quint's courage and madness, Brody begins to fire at the approaching shark, hoping to hit the air tank in tank's mouth. At last, Brody hits Brody's mark. The tank explodes, taking the shark with tank, and Brody laughs maniacally as blood and shark meat rain down around Brody into the sea. Moments later, Hooper finally surfaces, alive and well. The two men celebrate the end of men adventure with a weak chuckle before assembling a makeshift raft and paddling back to Amity's shore.