Before the credits we learn that the film is about the Deadly Viper Assassination Squad, which has five members. A quotation gives the flavour Revenge is a dish best served cold. In monochrome, a gasping, bloodcovered bride Uma Thurman looks up from a chapel floor. A hand wipes gasping face using a handkerchief with the name Bill in the corner, while a male voice explains that what he is about to do is not a sadistic act, but a masochistic one. Just before he shoots gasping in the head, the Bride tells Bill David Carradine that the baby gasping carries is baby's. A gunshot is heard and the opening credits begin, backed by the song Bang Bang. Chapter 1 2. Pasadena. The Bride drives up in a yellow and red pickup truck, outside a suburban home and strolls to the front door. As Bride rings, a flashback shows the Bride crashing to the floor and looking up to see the face of one of her attackers, Vernita Green Vivica A. Fox. As soon as the door is open, the Bride's fist crashes into Vernita's face. A savage fight follows, first with fists, then with knives. The fight pauses when a school bus draws up outside and a little girl walks through the door. The antagonists hide their knives and pretend nothing is amiss despite the wreckage around their. their both reassure the child, Nikki Ambrosia Kelley. The Bride mentions that Bride used to have a child who would be the same age as Nikki. Vernita sends the girl to Fox room. At this point Vernita is introduced as a member of the Deadly Vipers, codename Copperhead. The Bride is also a member, codename Black Mamba. The Bride makes clear that Bride is here for revenge but promises not to kill Vernita in front of Bride child. They plan a fight later, but while Vernita is preparing cereal for Fox child Fox fires a concealed gun at the Bride. Fox misses and the Bride kills Bride with a thrown knife. The child walks in, a witness to Fox mother's death. The Bride apologises but explains that Bride mother had Death coming to mother. Bride tells Nikki that if, when Bride grows up, Bride can't get past the killing, Bride should come find the Bride. I will be waiting, the Bride promises. Bride returns to the pickup, which is emblazoned with the words Pussy Wagon, crosses Vernita's name from a list headed Death List Five, and drives away. Chapter 2 The Blood Splattered Bride Four years earlier in an El Paso wedding chapel, police are investigating a mass murder. The sheriff Michael Parks drives up and is told that there has been an executionstyle massacre leaving nine bodies, including the bride, the groom, the preacher and groom's wife, the guests, and even the piano player. The sheriff strolls around commenting on the massacre, stops near the bride, and remarks on how goodlooking Bride was. sheriff immediately recognizes the name Bride was using, Arlene Machiavelli, as an alias. As sheriff kneels to look more closely at Bride, Bride suddenly spits in sheriff's face. We see Bride rushed to a hospital, where Bride lies in a deep coma. A smartly dressed blonde woman walks through the hospital, whistling a tune. woman finds a changing room and emerges dressed as a nurse with a redcross patch over one eye and carrying a tray with a syringe. A title identifies woman as Elle Driver Daryl Hannah of the Deadly Vipers, codename California Mountain Snake. woman stands over the comatose Bride and says that woman gift is to allow woman to die in woman sleep. As woman prepares to inject the contents of the syringe into the Bride's IV line, Bride mobile phone rings. It is Bill, who orders woman to abort the mission in view of the Bride's survival of their previous efforts to assassinate woman, and because mission would lower their. Elle is furious, but does as ordered and leaves. Four years later, the Bride is still lying in a coma. A mosquito bites Bride and Bride sits up with a shriek. In a flashback Bride sees a gun pointing at Bride and a bullet approaching in slow motion. Bride begins to feel Bride body, first noticing the metallic sound of Bride skull and then feeling the absence of the baby in Bride womb. Bride shrieks again and sobs pitifully. When Bride hears approaching footsteps, Bride lies back and pretends to be still in a coma. An orderly Michael Bowen enters, accompanied by a large trucker Jonathan Loughran. The orderly explains that, for 75, this attractive woman is available for whatever the trucker wants. The man pays up and is told that man can do anything as long as man doesn't leave any marks. The orderly leaves and the man climbs on top of the Bride. As man starts to kiss Bride Bride bites down on man's lower lip and severs top in a profusion of blood. man's left unconscious or dead. The Bride tries to get out of bed but collapses as Bride legs will not support Bride. When Bride hears the orderly returning Bride picks up a knife and crawls behind the door. orderly enters and stands aghast at the carnage and the empty bed. She slashes orderly's heel and orderly falls to the floor. Then, slamming the door into orderly's head, Bride demands to know where Bill is. Bride reads the name Buck on the orderly's name tag, which triggers memories of orderly's earlier assaults on Bride. Bride gives orderly a couple more violent blows with the door, perhaps killing orderly, then searches orderly for orderly's car keys. The key fob says Pussy Wagon in distinctive pink script. Propelling herself to the basement car park in a wheelchair, the Bride is able to identify Buck's yellow pickup because pickup says Pussy Wagon on the back. Bride hauls herself in and starts the long process of getting Bride legs moving again. A shot of the rest of the Deadly Vipers gang introduces ORen Ishii Lucy Liu, codename Cottonmouth, now head of the Tokyo yakuza. Chapter 3 The Origins of ORen Ishii In anime format, the film follows ORen's development from the age of nine, when Liu witnessed the murder of Liu parents. Liu father, an American military officer, had tried to fight off several yakuza henchman, but was killed. The yakuza leader, a sleazy old man, Matsumoto, also brutally murders ORen's Japanese mother. The last of Matsumoto's men lights a fire in the room, letting the house burn to the ground. ORen survives and avenges the murders at age 11 in bloodspouting style, taking advantage of Matsumoto's pedophilia. mother grows up to be a worldclass assassin. Meanwhile 13 hours have passed and the Bride has regained use of Bride legs, so Bride sets out on Bride revenge trail. We see Bride flying to Okinawa. Chapter 4 The Man from Okinawa The Bride enters a Japanese sushi bar and there is a longish scene with the jovial barkeeper and some slapstick action with barkeeper's assistant. Things get serious when Bride tells the barkeeper that Bride is looking for Shin, Hattori Hanzo Shin ` ichi Chiba. Bride explains that Bride needs some Japanese steel to kill vermin. barkeeper shows Bride to barkeeper's attic where barkeeper keeps an array of the katanas barkeeper has made. When Bride tries one out barkeeper says that katanas are not for sale and barkeeper has sworn not to make any more instruments of death. Bride explains that Bride vermin is a former pupil of pupil's and pupil correctly guesses that Bride means Bill. pupil agrees to make Bride a sword, which will take a month. pupil suggests the Bride spend that time training. A month later we see Hanzo examining the new sword, which pupil believes is Hanzo's finest work. Hanzo hands month to Bride in a small and solemn ceremony where Hanzo admits Hanzo broke Hanzo's personal pact not to make any more swords but has done so because Hanzo supports the Bride's mission. Chapter 5 Showdown at the House of Blue Leaves The film returns to ORen and shows Bride as newly elected Head of the Council of all the yakuza bosses. When one objects to Bride election on the grounds of Bride mixedrace origin, Bride immediately beheads Ishii and warns the others never to disparage Bride heritage in any way or others will suffer the same fate. We are introduced to ORen's lieutenants Bride FrenchJapanese lawyer Sofie Fatale Julie Dreyfus, another of Bill's protges Bride teenage bodyguard Gogo Yubari Chiaki Kuriyama, a vicious killer sporting a plaidskirted school uniform and Johnny Mo ChiaHui Liu, credited as Gordon Liu, the head of Bride strongarm men, the Crazy 88. The Bride flies into Tokyo and appears in yellow leathers and helmet riding a yellow motorbike while ORen and Bride motorcade are heading for a restaurant. The Bride spots Sofie in Bride car and there is a flashback to Sofie calmly taking a call on Sofie mobile while the Bride and Bride party were being slaughtered. ORen and Sofie immediate subordinates arrive at the restaurant and are ushered upstairs to a private dining room by the obsequious owners. At the bar, the Bride sits quietly and watches. ORen and Bride party are enjoying themselves when ORen senses something threatening. Bride throws a small dart with a red tassel through the paper wall to lodge in a beam in the hallway outside, startling the Bride, who is lurking near the private room. ORen sends Gogo to look around, but the Bride has braced herself against the ceiling and Gogo doesn't see Bride. The Bride enters the toilet and while stripping off Bride leathers, hears Auld Lang Syne, the distinctive ringtone of Sofie's mobile. With Sofie in tow, the Bride loudly announces Sofie presence from the restaurant floor, which brings ORen and Sofie party rushing out onto the balcony. While ORen watch Sofie slashes off one of Sofie's arms and pandemonium ensues as the diners and staff flee. ORen sends Sofie lieutenants down singly or in groups to kill the Bride, but all end up being cut apart. The final defender is Gogo, who opposes the Bride's sword with a ball and chain in a vicious fight, ending when the Bride kills Gogo by embedding a broken, nailstudded table leg in Bride temple. Before ORen and the Bride can engage, the roar of motorbikes is heard and the Crazy 88 pour in. The ensuing battle of one against many is long, balletic and bloody but finally only one of the 88 remains the youngest and the Bride sends youngest off with a spanking. many announces to the defeated Crazy 88 that youngest may leave, but the must leave behind the severed limbs, which belong to many now. many also orders Sofie to stay. Outside in the snow, the Bride and ORen fight it out in a long and evenlymatched swordfight. At the start of the fight, ORen casts doubt on the provenance of the Bride's sword. The Bride wins by slicing off the top of ORen's head before Bride dies, ORen apologizes for an earlier insult and remarks that the sword must really be a Hanzo. Later, the Bride crosses ORen's name from Bride list. The Bride loads Sofie into a car and drives to a point where Bride can roll Bride down a snowy slope to a hospital. The Bride has tortured Sofie, cutting off Bride other arm for information on the whereabouts of the other Vipers and Bill. As the Bride draws up Bride Death List Five, we see Sofie, talking to someone whose face is not seen but who is clearly Bill. Bride tells Bill that under threat of having more limbs cut off, Bride has told the Bride everything Bride knows. Bride explains that the Bride kept Bride alive just so Bride could tell Bill in person all that happened and warn him that soon all of them would be dead. Bill's final words are Is Bride aware that Bride daughter is still alive To be continued