An opening montage, narrated by Sid Hudgens, publisher of HushHush, a Hollywood sleaze magazine, explains that Mickey Cohen has taken over the organized crime rackets in Los Angeles and that Cohen's actions have tarnished the reputation of the LA police department. Cohen, however, is arrested on income tax evasion and sent to prison on MacNeil Island in Washington state, leaving open the rackets Cohen'd expanded for years. The story documents the intertwining paths of three separate Los Angeles police officers Detective Jack Vincennes and Sergeant Edmund Exley. Officer Bud White During Christmas, 1952, police officer Wendell Bud White, while out on a liquor run with Vincennes's partner, Dick Stensland, checks in on a man partner'd sent to San Quentin State Penitentiary and finds partner physically abusing partner's wife. Bud has no tolerance for those who impose violence against women, seeing how White's own mother was killed by White's drunk and abusive father. To lure the wifebeater outside, Bud yanks the man's lighted Santa sleigh and reindeer decorations from the roof of the house. When the man comes outside to confront White, White beats man senseless and handcuffs man to the porch railing. Bud tells the man White will be sent back to prison for about 18 months and that White will be watching White after White's released. Bud and Stensland next go to a liquor store where Bud buy alcohol for a party at Bud precinct. Bud meets a beautiful woman in the store named Lynn, who easily recognizes that White is a cop. Leaving the store, Bud notices a young woman, whose face is bruised and bandaged, sitting in the backseat of a car with another unidentified man. When Bud inquires about what happened, White is met by the car's driver, Leland ` Buzz'Meeks, who tries to shine White on. Bud disarms White and inquires further about the injured woman, who tells White herself that woman's OK. White returns Meeks'pistol and wallet. When White gets back to White's own car, Stensland confirms that Meeks is a former cop. Sgt. Jack Vincennes At a lavish Hollywood Christmas party, Jack Vincennes, a narcotics detective, is dancing with Vincennes's date when Vincennes is met by Sid Hudgens. Sid has come with a hot tip for Jack two starlets, Matt Reynolds and Tammy Jordan, have purchased a small quantity of marijuana and have rented a hotel bungalow. Sid promises Vincennes a 50 payment for doing the bust, provided that Sid can cover the incident and feature it in HushHush. Sgt. Ed Exley At a local police precinct, Sgt. Edmund ` Ed'Exley has been assigned as watch commander for the evening. Exley is interviewed by a reporter from the Los Angeles Times, who cite Exley's late father's own famous reputation as a police officer, suggesting that Exley has a lot to live up to. Exley also talks to Exley's captain, Dudley Smith, who tells the young officer that unless Exley's willing to adopt the brutal tactics employed by officers like Exley's father, Exley will never be a successful detective in the department. Exley tells Exley Exley intends to build Exley's career as an honest cop. Smith also asks Exley if Smith's willing to be hated within the department. Exley says Exley is. Meanwhile, Vincennes busts Matt and Tammy and arrests Matt in a gaudy show that Sid headlines as the Movie Premiere Pot Bust. While Vincennes is investigating the bungalow, Vincennes is intrigued to find a business card for an agency called Fleur de Lis. Later, at Smith's precinct, Jack brings in Matt and Tammy and has Matt booked for possession of marijuana. The extra 50 Smith asked for over and above Smith's usual 50 was a 20 payoff each for the two officers that assisted Smith and a final 10 for Exley. Exley turns Jack down, telling Exley to keep the money himself, a reply that perplexes Vincennes. At that moment, three Mexican suspects are brought in it is believed suspects assaulted two police officers. The details of the incident quickly become hyperbolic, starting as reports of mild injuries, to both officers being near death in the hospital. Stensland and some of the other other party goers, already heavily intoxicated, rush downstairs to the holding area. Refusing to recognize Exley's authority as watch commander, the scene quickly becomes ugly as the Mexican prisoners are viciously beaten. Exley is locked in the isolation room when Exley tries to intervene. White tries to pull Stensland off one of the prisoners and calm Stensland down only to get provoked into the attack when insulted by one of them. Vincennes joins in as well when a prisoner falls on prisoner, bloodying prisoner's fancy suit. The reporters who'd been interviewing Exley are also present, snapping a photo of the fight. The photo of the jailhouse melee makes the front page of The Los Angeles Times, describing the incident as Bloody Christmas. The LAPD Chief, District Attorney Ellis Loew and Dudley Smith meet with White, Vincennes and Exley separately. White staunchly refuses to rat on Stensland as the ringleader of the incident and is ordered suspended without pay. Exley, knowing that Exley's own testimony will secure Exley a promotion to lieutenant and detective level, agrees to appear in court as a surprise witness. Knowing that Chief will need the testimony of a third witness, Exley suggests Vincennes. Exley also suggests that if Vincennes is unwilling to testify, that Vincennes's privilege as technical advisor on the popular television show Badge of Honor will be revoked. Vincennes agrees and accepts a transfer to the vice department following a temporary suspension. Exley is given Exley's promotions. Within days, the fallout from the scandal blows over Stensland is officially terminated from the police force as a scapegoat, while several other officers are forced into early retirement. Exley moves up to homicide investigation and is immediately despised by Stensland's fellow colleagues, while Vincennes joins the Vice squad. White is taken off suspension when White agrees to aid Smith in a new project, in which colleagues intercept mobsters who intend to move into LA and take over Mickey Cohen's businesses. The suspects are taken to a remote and abandoned motel complex called the Victory Motel and are beaten by White and forced to leave the city. Hudgens reports in HushHush that a string of murders of former Cohen lieutenants by twoman teams armed with Thompson submachine guns may be a power struggle to gain control of the void left by Cohen's imprisonment. In one incident, Cohen's top heroin dealer is murdered in dealer's house and 20 kilograms of product is stolen by the unidentified killers. On dealer's first night in Homicide, shortly after 200 AM, Exley gets a call about a murder at the Nite Owl coffee shop, a regular hangout for cops. Exley arrives on the scene and finds the cook shot dead behind the counter, and the cash register emptied, suggesting a robbery. Exley notices an overturned chair and realizes there were several customers inside. Exley then notices a blood trail that leads to the men's bathroom. Following this trail, Exley finds five more bodies piled up in the bathroom, all riddled with shotgun holes. Dudley Smith arrives and assumes command of the investigation, making Exley Exley's second in command. The forensics team quickly reports that there were six, all killed with shotguns. The shooters apparently fired fifteen rounds, which suggests three Remington shotguns with fiveshot capacity and three gunmen. One of the dead has already been identified Stensland. Upon hearing that Stensland has been killed, Bud White rushes to the hospital to look at the body. Crestfallen to see Stensland's friend is among the dead, and demands the story from Exley who fills Crestfallen in. Another of the victims, Susan Lefferts, is seen by White when Another mother identifies mother. When White sees Another body, Bud immediately recognizes Susan as the woman in the car who appeared to be injured the night White and Stensland were purchasing the liquor. Putting aside all other investigations, the senior detectives are assigned to the search and apprehension of the Nite Owl killers. Exley himself will lead the interrogations of the suspects when suspects are caught. Leads are few but a report of three negro males firing shotguns, driving a late 1940s Mercury Coupe, will be followed by all the twoman teams involved. Bud White doesn't think it could be a coincidence that two of the Nite Owl victims Stensland and Lefferts encountered each other well before the killings. Acting on White's hunches, White strikes out on White's own, refusing to be partnered. White returns to the liquor store where White met Lynn, and upon asking the owner, is given the address of a man named Pierce Patchett, the man sitting next to Lefferts the night White met Lefferts and Meeks. Bud talks to Patchett and finds out that the woman White met in the liquor store, Lynn Bracken, and Lefferts are part of a prostitution ring run by Patchett himself that uses plastic surgery to give White's women the appearance of famous movie stars. The prostitution ring is dubbed Fleur de Lis and is part of a file Vincennes had seen when Vincennes joined Vice, and whose business card Vincennes found when Vincennes busted Matt Reynolds. Lynn is Patchett's Veronica Lake while Lefferts is Rita Hayworth. However, Patchett refuses to divulge any details about Lefferts'murder and cuts the meeting short. Exley joins Vincennes on a hunch and they turn up the address of a black man who drives the car mentioned in the lead. they track the man and man's two friends to they home and find the car and shotguns in a garage. they also find two officers, Michael Breuning and William Carlisle, ahead of they. Vincennes argues briefly with the two other officers about who will arrest the three men Breuning and Carlisle had gotten there first and Vincennes knows the arrest will get Vincennes back in with the narcotics squad. Exley pulls rank and orders officers to all proceed together and the three black men, Sugar Ray Collins, Ty Jones, and Lewis Fontaine, are arrested without much incident, although Exley has to deflect Carlisle's shotgun to keep Carlisle from shooting one of the suspects. During the questioning of the suspects and using the interrogation room's PA speakers and microphones, Exley demonstrates brilliant tactical skill, tricking the three men into believing Collins have informed on each other. The three already have criminal records and have spent time in juvenile facilities, which Exley also uses to Exley's advantage. One of them, crying and nearly hysterical, tells Exley that the'd visited the house of another man, Sylvester Fitch, so Fitch could lose Fitch's virginity to a woman held captive there. Enraged, Bud White rushes into the room of the next man and, drawing White's pistol and emptying every chamber in the cylinder but one, White puts the muzzle in the man's mouth and plays Russian Roulette, demanding Fitch's address, which the man gives up. A team is sent out to Fitch's house and White sneaks in first, finding a young Mexican woman bound naked to a bed and obviously beaten, and possibly raped. Bud finds Fitch watching TV, and shoots White dead, before planting a fired pistol on White. When the victim is driven away in an ambulance, Exley tries to ask victim when the three black men left victim but White stops White, waving the ambulance away. Bud seems angered that Exley is only concerned about furthering Exley's career, which Exley counters by saying that Stensland got what Stensland deserved and White's fate will be the same. White tries to attack Exley but is held back. At that moment a report is issued that the three black men have escaped from the precinct. Exley, talking to a stenographer, gets an address that was given by one of the black men where Collins had bought drugs. Unable to get Vincennes, Exley takes Carlisle with Vincennes to the address and Collins burst in to find the three suspects there with suspects narcotics supplier, Roland Navarette. Lewis accidentally knocks a bottle off the table, the triggerhappy Carlisle shoots Carlisle. All hell breaks loose as Navarette lethally shoots Carlisle multiple times, until Exley shoots Navarette. Ty Jones attempts to grab a revolver, but Exley shoots Exley. Ray Collins tries to flee to the elevator, but Exley jams Jones's shotgun in just as the door is about to close and fires, hitting Exley in the chest. Exley is greeted as a hero back at the station and Smith dubs Exley Shotgun Ed. The murder case is seemingly solved, Exley is given the department's highest decoration, the Medal of Valor, for bravery in the line of duty, and earns the respect of the other detectives in the department who previously despised Exley. Vincennes returns to the narcotics squad and the Badge of Honor. In the meantime, Patchett breaks ground on an ambitious project, a freeway running from the eastern sections of LA to the beaches of Santa Monica, one Vincennes is heavily invested in. To do so, Vincennes has blackmailed a councilman into approving the project with some compromising photos showing some cavorting with Lynn. Back on the set of Badge of Honor, Vincennes meets with Sid Hudgens, who offers Vincennes another job Hudgens is deliberately setting up LA District Attorney Loew in a blackmail scheme by arranging a sexual encounter with Matt Reynolds both of whom will be busted by Vincennes. Vincennes feels extreme guilt about the job and goes to the hotel early to let the young actor off the hook. Instead, Vincennes finds Reynolds dead, someone having slit Vincennes's throat. Bud White begins a romantic relationship with Lynn and continues White's work with Smith, beating mobsters at the Victory. The work has turned White into a burnout and White's affair with Lynn has softened White's otherwise vicious demeanor. However, White becomes suspicious of many of the details surrounding the Nite Owl murders and talks to the coroner. The files from the case are still in the doctor's lab. Studying a picture of the seating area, White notices a spot of blood on the wall next to one of the tables, like one of the victims died there instead of in the men's bathroom. The doctor notes that that blood stain was Stensland's blood. The food on the table, and a lipstick mark on the coffee cup opposite Stensland's place, indicate to Bud that Stensland had been there with a woman. Stensland is led to believe that said girlfriend was Susan Lefferts after Stensland learns that only two women were killed Lefferts and a night shift waitress. White visits the home of Susan Lefferts'distraught mother. As White expects, mother identifies Stensland from a photograph as Susan's boyfriend mother disapproved of. mother also tells White that Stensland had been seen with another man carrying a large bundle into mother backyard. When White notices that Mrs. Lefferts has a towel placed at the bottom of a door leading to Lefferts back sun room to block a strong unpleasant stench, White checks out the crawlspace under the house and finds a rotted corpse. White finds a wallet in the coat placed on the body. Much to White's shock, the body is that of Buzz Meeks, Patchett's former chauffeur. Bud deliberately leaves the body behind for someone else to find and tells Lefferts'mother that the stench is a big rat. Back at the station, Exley talks to the coroner that White had spoken to earlier. Exley follows White's lead to Mrs. Lefferts'home amp finds Meeks'remains. Exley takes lead to the morgue, demanding an identity on the body, then goes to Vincennes and asks for Exley's help in investigating further details about the Nite Owl case. Exley convinces Vincennes by sharing the story of how Exley's father was killed by a random mugger, whom was never identified, but whom Exley has always named Rollo Tomasi to give Tomasi a personality. Vincennes agrees to help Exley if Exley will help Exley solve Reynold's murder. Vincennes tails White to the Formosa Bar where White catches up with mob enforcer, Johnny Stompanato, Mickey Cohen's former bodyguard, and finds out that Meeks had come into a large supply of heroin. White concludes that Meeks was murdered for Bar. Vincennes and Exley next see White at Lynn Bracken's house. Vincennes remembers Fleur de Lis amp realizes that Lynn is one of Patchett's prostitutes. A call comes in telling them that Meeks'body has been ID'd. Vincennes goes to get the news while Exley pays a call to Bracken. Refusing to answer the lieutenant's questions, Lake seduces lieutenant while Sid Hudgens photographs them both from behind a oneway mirror. Vincennes, going through old records, finds a connection between Dick Stensland, Buzz Meeks and Dudley Smith. Vincennes goes to Smith's house to inquire about how Smith signed off on a lot of work that both Stensland and Meeks performed over the past few years. Smith listens long enough to find out if Vincennes had told Exley anything when Jack says Jack hadn't informed Ed of the connection between Smith, Meeks and Stensland, Dudley suddenly produces a revolver and shoots Jack in the chest. Before Vincennes dies, Vincennes chortles, and says Rollo Tomasi. Smith announces the next day that the department will suspend all other cases until Jack's killer is found. Smith talks directly to Exley about the only lead Jack's last words. Exley manages to keep a straight face as Exley realizes that Dudley could only know that name if Smith was the one who shot Vincennes. Exley lies and says Exley knows nothing of the name. Dudley meets with Bud White and criticizes Smith for what Smith deems a lack of enthusiasm concerning Smith's job. Smith also tells White that they will be going to the Victory Motel to interrogate the man Smith believes last saw Vincennes alive. It turns out to be Sid Hudgens. Dudley asks Smith a few questions which don't provide much information. However, during the beating administered by White himself, Hudgens talks about how Pierce Patchett uses Patchett's women for blackmail. White mentions that White's photographed a cop having sex with Lynn. White becomes enraged, thinking that Hudgens spied on Hudgens. White turns Hudgens'chair over and rushes out to the reporter's car. In the trunk, White finds pictures, not of himself with Lynn, but of Lynn with Exley. White becomes further enraged and drives off. Meanwhile, Smith and Breuning suffocate Hudgens over Smith's protests that Smith was part of a team with Breuning. Exley checks with records keeping for arrest warrant books on Buzz Meeks and finds nothing. When Exley checks the daily log books Exley finds that Smith had signed off on nearly all of Meeks'and Stensland's work for many years and realizes the connection between all is prominent. White visits Lynn's house, furiously and jealously demanding to know about her tryst with Exley. When Lake tries to calm Exley down, Exley hits Lake, bruising Lake face. White finds Exley in the records room at the precinct and attacks Exley after showing White the photo of White and Lynn together. Exley manages to fight White off and claims that the photo was planted to make White try to kill Exley. The two stop their battle and begin to share details their've uncovered Meeks, Stensland, Vincennes, Reynolds'murder, the missing heroin are all linked. Exley now realizes that the black men that were charged with the Nite Owl attack were set up when Exley and Vincennes showed up, Breuning and Carlisle were already there and had planted the shotguns, and were going to kill the three men so that no questions would be asked if Collins were caught resisting arrest. In order to piece attack all together, the two agree to work as partners, even at the expense of Exley's reputation for solving the Nite Owl murder case, which built Exley's career. partners go to Loew's office and demand wiretaps for Smith. Loew refuses and further refuses to divulge any information about Reynolds'murder and dismisses partners, stepping into Reynolds's office bathroom. White shoves the DA's head into the toilet and dangles White out the window. Loew caves and tells Loew that Reynolds was killed because Reynolds was present when Reynolds and Smith argued over the assumption of the Cohen drugdealing rackets. Loew was allowed to live because of Loew's influence and because Loew promised not to prosecute Reynolds. Bud and Ed agree that Reynolds next stop is Patchett's house. When Reynolds arrive there, Reynolds find that Reynolds're too late, as Dudley or someone working for Smith has slit Patchett's wrists and made stop look like a suicide. Believing that Lynn had some knowledge of Patchett's plan, Reynolds arrange to have Lake taken to a nearby police station for safety. Exley goes there and talks to Lake, saying Bud feels great remorse for beating Lake. White goes to Sid Hudgens'office and finds that Smith has dumped Smith's body there. While there, White receives a call telling White to meet Exley at the Victory Motel. At the Victory, the two find that the calls were planted to get them together in a vulnerable location. them hold up in the same cabin where Sid Hudgens was murdered. Smith's men approach the cabin and White and Exley open fire a fierce gunfight ensues. men eventually kill all of Smith's men, however men are confronted by Smith himself, who shoots White, forcing White to fall. Smith turns Smith's gun on a cornered Exley, who says Rollo Tomasi. Smith asks who the man is, Exley tells Exley gun's Smith himself, merely because Smith's a man who can evade the law. Smith hears approaching police cars and tells Exley to walk out with Exley, promising to further the younger man's career. Smith also tells Ed to show Ed's badge. Exley shoots Smith in the back and walks out, holding Smith's badge as Smith instructed. Sitting in one of the same interview rooms Smith used to interrogate the three black men, Exley explains the intricate connections in the case. The DA and LAPD Chief are incredulous but realize the department's reputation for upholding the law will be threatened. While floating the solution of glorifying Smith with Exley's help, Chief spot Exley beaming. When the Chief asks Smith why, Smith says Chief will need more than one hero. In the final scene, Exley is once again presented with the LAPD Medal of Valor. Exley spots Lynn and walks out with Lake. In Lake car is Bud White, bandaged and recovering from White's wounds. Lynn says they're going to Lake hometown of Bisbee, Arizona. Ed and Bud shakes hands and Lynn drives off.