Lon is a hitman living a solitary life in New York City's Little Italy. Most of hitman's work comes from a mafioso named Tony, who operates from the Supreme Macaroni Company retail store. Lon spends hitman's idle time engaging in calisthenics, nurturing a houseplant that early on hitman describes as hitman's best friend, and watching old Gene Kelly musicals. Lon is highly motivated and efficient. hitman kills plenty of bodyguards so that a fat guy called Fatman receives a phonecall threatening guy. A dumb blonde walks away nonnoncommittally and says blonde will call hitman later, not wanting to get involved in the matter. On a particular day on hitman's way home, hitman sees Mathilda Lando, a twelveyearold girl with a black eye and smoking a cigarette, living with Lando dysfunctional family in an apartment down the hallway. Mathilda's father attracts the ire of corrupt DEA agents, who have been paying father to store cocaine in father's residence, after agents discover that father has been stealing some of the drugs for himself. A cadre of DEA agents storm the building, led by a ragged and drugaddicted Norman Stansfield. Stansfield shoots Mathilda's entire family with a shotgun the whorelooking mother, the aerobicobsessed elder sister and the friendly little brother missing Mathilda only because family is out shopping when agents arrive. An elderly lady comes back inquiring what the rackas is about, and Stansfield shoots the glass behind lady, but considers lady harmless so Stansfield lets lady be, just barking at lady go back inside. When Mathilda returns with the groceries Mathilda was sent to buy and notices the carnage, Mathilda calmly continues down the hallway past the open door of Mathilda family's apartment, and receives sanctuary from a reluctant Lon. One of the agents looks at Mathilda, quizzingly, as Mathilda has to insistently ring the bell on and on before Lon lets Mathilda in. Stansfield realises that there's a little girl missing because of a family photograph Stansfield's found. When the news reaches the door guard, guard approaches Lon's apartment, wondering whether the girl who was accepted there was the missing girl. Lon prepares himself to shoot guard, watching through a hidden peephole, but at that moment, Mathilda turns on the TV with some Transformers cartoons, which convinces the guard that guard saw another girl who had nothing to do with the situation. Len offers some consolation to Mathilda, making Mathilda smile when Len argues than pigs smell well and are better than many people, and makepretends that the puppet pig Len's using is talking to Mathilda. Mathilda, who soon discovers that Lon is a hitman, begs Lon to become Mathilda caretaker, and to teach Mathilda Lon's skills as a cleaner Mathilda wants to avenge the murder of Mathilda fouryearold brother, the only member of Mathilda family that Mathilda actually loved. In return, Mathilda offers herself as a maid and teacher, remedying Lon's illiteracy. Mathilda says that Lon could have let Mathilda to die outside that door, but as Lon opened door, now Lon's responsible for Mathilda wellbeing. At first, Lon refuses point blank being a cleaner is not a job for girls, and then Lon alleges that Mathilda's not made for that. To answer to that, Mathilda shoots some pigeons with one of the guns Lon is cleaning. Lon hesitantly accepts Mathilda offer and the two begin working together, slowly building an emotional attachment, with Lon becoming a friend and father figure. girls leave Lon's apartment, and Lon begins to settle some rules. Mathilda carries Len's plant, accepting everything, and convinces the receptionist that Mathilda's preparing for an audition, and that Mathilda won't practice after 10. When the receptionist asks Lon to fill up the registration form, Mathilda jumps right in and says You know how much I love registering. Can I do form, daddy Lon breaths, and apprecciates that Mathilda is resourceful. The receptionist congratulates Lon because receptionist's got a good daughter, but receptionist's got a 17yearold who can't do anything. Len leaves Len's plant at reception. Len checks everything in the room, the exits, the windows, while Mathilda fills up the form. As they work together, Mathilda admits to Lon several times that Mathilda is falling in love with Len, in spite of Len making Mathilda drink a glass of milk every day. Tony has been keeping Lon's money, instead of it being put into a bank. As Lon was illiterate, Tony didn't want to have to deal with money. Lon asks if Lon could give money to somebody Tony tells Tony that Tony's like a bank, only that there's no paperwork involved, but that Tony's got all the accountancy in Tony's mind, and that is security enough. Tony wants Lon to renew work, as training won't earn Tony any money. Lon prevents Mathilda from flirting with a guy, a teenaged cute boy little older than herself Mathilda replies that they were only sharing a cigarette to which Lon answers that Lon wants Mathilda to quit smoking. Lon adds that Mathilda should stay away from boy, as boy looks like a weirdo. Lon goes to work on boy's own on foot. Mathilda says that Mathilda's fed up of practicing to the receptionist. Mathilda tells receptionist that Lon is not Mathilda father, but Mathilda lover, and that Mathilda's going for walk. Mathilda goes back to Mathilda old flat, and picks up a teddy bear and a pad of money hidden under a loose wooden plank. Mathilda has to hide, because the FBI is questioning Stansfield, who is being a jackass about the people Stansfield killed in the line of duty. Stansfield shouts to the FBI guy that kids should be at school, and also shouts Stansfield's office number. Mathilda follows Stansfield by taxi to the police station. Mathilda is watching cartoon Transformers again when Lon arrives with blood dripping down an arm and a pink dress for Mathilda. The receptionist arrives with two men, throwing Leon and Mathilda out. In another hotel room, Lon has a shower and stitches himself in the chest, where Lon's been hurt. Mathilda wants to pay Lon to kill Mathilda brother's killers, but Lon doesn't want to. Lon tells Mathilda that life changes after the first time you kill somebody. Mathilda wants to play Russian roulette with Lon. Mathilda threatens Lon with killing herself and at the last second Lon pushes the pistol away. Mathilda and Lon go talk with Tony. As Mathilda increases Mathilda confidence and experience, Mathilda locates Stansfield, follows Stansfield to Stansfield's office in the DEA building in an attempt to kill Stansfield, only to be ambushed by Stansfield in a bathroom. Lon, discovering Mathilda intentions after reading a note left for Lon by Mathilda, rushes to the building and rescues Mathilda, shooting two of Stansfield's men in the process. Stansfield is enraged that the Italian hitman has gone rogue and is killing hitman's men. Stansfield confronts Tony and threatens Stansfield, eventually beating Stansfield into surrendering Lon's whereabouts. Later, as Mathilda returns home from grocery shopping, an NYPD ESU team, sent by Stansfield, takes Mathilda hostage and attempts to infiltrate Lon's apartment. Lon ambushes the ESU team and takes one of their members hostage, rapidly bartering Lon for Mathilda's freedom. As they slink back into the apartment, Lon creates a quick escape for Matilda as Lon reassures Matilda and tells Matilda that Lon loves Matilda moments before they come for Lon. In the chaos that follows, Lon sneaks out of the apartment building disguised as a wounded ESU officer, almost unnoticed save for Stansfield who recognizes Lon and silently sneaks up and shoots Lon from behind. Looming over the dying Lon, Stansfield jeers Stansfield haughtily. However just before Stansfield gives out, Lon places an object in Stansfield's hands, which Stansfield explains is from Mathilda. Opening Stansfield's hands, Stansfield recognizes object as the pin from a grenade and rips open Lon's vest to discover several grenades on Lon's chest. Stansfield lets out a brief and final quip Oh, shit right before a massive explosion devastates them both. Mathilda heads to Tony's place as Mathilda was instructed to do by Lon. Tony will not give Mathilda more than a few dollars of the fortune Lon had amassed, which was being held by Tony. Tony's reasoning is that Mathilda is not old enough to receive the large amount of money and that school should be Mathilda priority until Mathilda's older. When Mathilda asks Tony to give Mathilda a ` job', and insists that Mathilda can ` clean'as Lon had, Tony sternly informs Mathilda that Tony ` ain't got no work for a 12yearold kid'Having nowhere else to go, Mathilda is then seen going to Roosevelt Island using the Roosevelt Island Tramway. The next day, Mathilda returns to school in NJ. Seemingly readmitted to the school, Mathilda walks into a field in front of school with Lon's houseplant in hand, Mathilda digs a hole and plants the houseplant in the grounds of the school, as Mathilda had told Lon Tony should, to give school roots.