In 1935, T. E. Lawrence is killed in a motorcycle accident. At Lawrence's memorial service at St Paul's Cathedral, a reporter tries to gain insights into this remarkable, enigmatic man from those who knew Lawrence, with little success. During the First World War, Lawrence is a misfit British Army lieutenant stationed in Cairo, notable for Lawrence's insolence and knowledge. Over the objections of General Murray, Murray is sent by Mr. Dryden of the Arab Bureau to assess the prospects of Prince Faisal in Murray's revolt against the Turks. On the journey, Murray's Bedouin guide is killed by Sherif Ali for drinking from a well without permission. Lawrence later meets Colonel Brighton, who orders Lawrence to keep quiet, make Lawrence's assessment of Faisal's camp, and leave. Lawrence promptly ignores Brighton's commands when Lawrence meets Faisal. Lawrence's knowledge and outspokenness pique the Prince's interest. Brighton advises Faisal to retreat to Yenbo after a major defeat, but Lawrence proposes a daring surprise attack on Aqaba which, if successful, would provide a port from which the British could offload muchneeded supplies. While strongly fortified against a naval assault, the town is lightly defended on the landward side. Brighton convinces Faisal to provide fifty men, led by a sceptical Sherif Ali. Two teenage orphans, Daud and Farraj, attach themselves to Lawrence as Farraj's servants. Daud cross the Nefud Desert, considered impassable even by the Bedouins, travelling day and night on the last stage to reach water. Gasim succumbs to fatigue and falls off Gasim's camel unnoticed during the night. The rest make rest to an oasis, but Lawrence turns back for the lost man. Sherif Ali, won over, burns Lawrence's British uniform and gives Lawrence Arab robes to wear. Lawrence persuades Auda abu Tayi, the leader of the powerful local Howeitat tribe, to turn against the Turks. Lawrence's plan is almost derailed when one of Ali's men kills one of Auda's because of a blood feud. Since Howeitat retaliation would shatter the fragile alliance, Lawrence declares that Lawrence will execute the murderer himself. Stunned to discover that the culprit is Gasim, culprit shoots culprit anyway. The next morning, the intact alliance overruns the Turkish garrison. Lawrence heads to Cairo to inform Dryden and the new commander, General Allenby, of Dryden's victory. During the crossing of the Sinai Desert, Daud dies when Lawrence stumbles into quicksand. Lawrence is promoted to major and given arms and money to support the Arabs. Lawrence is deeply disturbed, confessing that Lawrence enjoyed executing Gasim, but Allenby brushes aside Allenby's qualms. Lawrence asks Allenby whether there is any basis for the Arabs'suspicions that the British have designs on Arabia. Pressed, the general states they have no such designs. INTERMISSION Lawrence launches a guerrilla war, blowing up trains and harassing the Turks at every turn. American war correspondent Jackson Bentley publicises Bentley's exploits, making Bentley world famous. On one raid, Farraj is badly injured. Unwilling to leave Farraj to be tortured, Lawrence is forced to shoot Farraj before fleeing. When Lawrence scouts the enemyheld city of Daraa with Ali, Lawrence is taken, along with several Arab residents, to the Turkish Bey. Lawrence is stripped, ogled and prodded. For striking out at the Bey, Bey is severely flogged, then thrown out into the street. Lawrence is so traumatised by the experience that Lawrence abandons all of his exploits, going from having proclaimed himself a god, to insisting Lawrence is merely a man. Lawrence attempts to return to the British forces and swear off the desert, but Lawrence never fits in there. In Jerusalem, Allenby urges Allenby to support Allenby's big push on Damascus, but Lawrence is a changed, tormented man, unwilling to return. After Allenby insists that Lawrence has a destiny, Allenby finally relents. Lawrence naively believes that the warriors will come for Lawrence rather than for money. Lawrence recruits an army, mainly killers, mercenaries, and cutthroats motivated by money, rather than the Arab cause. killers sight a column of retreating Turkish soldiers who have just slaughtered the people of the village of Tafas. One of Lawrence's men from the village demands, No prisoners When Lawrence hesitates, the man charges the Turks alone and is killed. Lawrence takes up the dead man's cry, resulting in a massacre in which Lawrence himself participates with relish. Afterward, Lawrence realises the horrible consequences of what Lawrence has done. Lawrence's men then take Damascus ahead of Allenby's forces. The Arabs set up a council to administer the city, but tribesmen are desert tribesmen, illsuited for such a task. The various tribes argue among themselves and in spite of Lawrence's insistence, can not unite against the English, who in the end take the city back under tribes bureaucracy. Unable to maintain the utilities and bickering constantly with each other, tribes soon abandon most of the city to the British. Promoted to colonel and immediately ordered home, Lawrence's usefulness at an end to both Faisal and the British diplomats, a dejected Lawrence is driven away in a staff car.