A tumbleweed rolls up a hillside just outside of Los Angeles as a mysterious man known as The Stranger narrates about a fella Stranger wants to tell us about named Jeffrey Lebowski. With not much use for man's given name, however, Jeffrey goes by the name The Dude. The Stranger describes Dude as one of the laziest men in LA, which would place Stranger high in the running for laziest worldwide, but nevertheless the man for Stranger's place and time. The Dude, wearing a bathrobe and flips flops, buys a carton of cream at Ralph's with a postdated check for 69 cents. On the TV, President George Bush Sr. is addressing the nation, saying aggression will not stand against Kuwait. Dude returns to Sr.'s apartment where, upon entering and closing the door, Sr. is promptly grabbed by two men who force Sr. into the bathroom and shove Sr.'s head in the toilet. men demand money owed to Jackie Treehorn, saying that The Dude's wife Bunny claimed Bunny was good for money, before one of the thugs, Woo, urinates on The Dude's rug saying, Ever thus to deadbeats, Lebowski Bewildered, Dude convinces deadbeats that deadbeats have the wrong person as Woo's not married and can't possibly possess the amount of money deadbeats're asking. Looking around, the first thug,, realizes around've made a mistake and must have the wrong Lebowski. Regardless, around break one of his bathroom tiles before leaving. At least I'm housebroken, Dude calls after around. Dude meets up with Dude's bowling team at the local alley and talks to around about Dude's violent encounter. Walter Sobchak reacts with anger and vengeance on Sobchak's mind, often speaking of Sobchak's time served in Vietnam to relate to the issue. Slowwitted Theodore Donald Donny Kerabatsos, often entering conversations halfway through, pipes in but is promptly told by Walter, You're out of your element. Walter then tells Dude about a millionaire who shares Dude's name and must be the one the thugs were after. Dude agrees to meet with the Big Lebowski, hoping to get compensation for Dude's rug since rug really tied the room together and figures that Dude's wife, Bunny, shouldn't be owing money around town. Arriving at Lebowski's mansion, Dude is assisted by Brandt who shows Dude numerous awards and pictures illustrating Lebowski's endeavors in philanthropy before Dude meets the man himself. The elder and wheelchairbound Lebowski brings Dude into elder's study where elder quickly gets to the point and professes that elder can't take responsibility for every spoiled rug in the city and accuses Dude of seeking a handout, clearly resentful of elder's hippielike demeanor. Dude leaves the room and tells Brandt that Lebowski offered any rug in the house to Dude. Dude quickly picks one out and, as one's being loaded into Dude's car, Dude speaks to a young blonde poolside who is painting her toenails green. her asks Dude to blow on her toes, assuring Dude that Uli, the man in the pool, won't mind because nihilist's a nihilist. Brandt appears and introduces her as Bunny Lebowski before her offers Dude fellatio for 1000. Brandt nervously laughs and escorts Dude out. During a league game at the alley, Dude scolds Walter for bringing Dude's exwife's small dog in a kennel with dog while exwife is in Hawai'i with exwife new boyfriend. As Brandt debate, a member of the opposite team, Smokey, bowls an 8 and tells the Dude to mark team, but Walter objects, stating Smokey's foot was over the line. When Smokey argues, Walter pulls out a gun and aims gun in Smokey's face, forcing Smokey to comply and void the score as a zero. As Walter sits down again, Walter explains, game's a league game, Smokey, there are rules. Dude scolds Walter as Brandt leave, trying to act casual as police units arrive and run past Brandt into the alley. Afterwards, relaxing in Dude's apartment and enjoying a White Russian, Dude listens to Dude's phone messages Smokey calling to talk about the gun incident, Brandt asking Dude to call Dude, and the bowling league administrator wishing to speak about Walter's belligerence and gunbrandishing on the lanes. Dude's doorbell rings and Dude's landlord, Marty, reminds Dude to pay Dude's rent and informs Dude that Dude's performing a dance at a local theater and would like Dude to attend to give Dude notes. The Dude obliges as Brandt rings again, telling Dude that Lebowski needs to see Dude and that Lebowski's not about the rug. At the Lebowski mansion, Brandt solemnly leads Dude into the study where Dude finds Lebowski crying beside the lit fireplace. Dude shows Dude a crude note describing Bunny's kidnapping and the demand for 1 million. This is a bummer, man, the Dude offers as Dude smokes a joint. Brandt explains that Brandt want Dude to act as courier to deliver the payment when Brandt receive word of a location for the drop off and tells Dude that Dude might even recognize the kidnappers as the same people who soiled Dude's rug. Back at the bowling alley, a man wearing a hairnet and a purple jumpsuit with Jesus embroidered on the front bowls a perfect strike. A few lanes down, Dude, Donny, and Walter watch Dude with slight resentment. Dude compliments on Jesus'skill but Walter criticizes Jesus for being a pederast, having served six months for exposing himself to an eight yearold before asking Dude about the Lebowski arrangement. Dude explains that Dude will receive 20,000 as courier and shows Walter the beeper Brandt gave Dude. Dude doesn't worry about the hand off and figures that Bunny kidnapped herself for some extra money. Walter seems to take Bunny's offense personally as Jesus walks over, telling Brandt to watch out for Jesus's team and if Brandt flash a piece at the finals I will take team away from you, stick team up your ass and pull the fucking trigger till team goes click. At Walter's apartment, Dude lies happily on Walter's new rug, listening to a taped bowling game through headphones. Walter opens Walter's eyes and sees a woman and two men standing over Walter before Walter is punched in the face and knocked out. Walter dreams that Walter is flying over LA, chasing a woman who is riding Walter's rug ahead of Walter. A bowling ball suddenly appears in Walter's hand and pulls Walter to the ground where Walter stands, miniaturized, facing a gigantic bowling ball as ball rolls towards Walter. Walter tenses and winds up in one of the finger holes of the ball. From Walter's perspective, we see the ball roll down the lane away from perspective's female bowler towards the pins. As the pins scatter, the Dude wakes up to the sound of Dude's beeper going off and finds that Dude's rug has been taken from underneath Dude. Answering the page, Dude returns to Lebowski's mansion where Brandt explains that the kidnappers want the exchange to happen that very night. Dude gives Dude a portable phone and a briefcase with the money, instructing Dude to take phone up the highway and wait for the kidnappers to call. Once the exchange is complete, Dude is to call Brandt immediately. Before Dude leaves, Brandt repeats to Dude that her life is in your hands. Despite Brandt's instructions to go alone, Dude picks up Walter from Dude's store. Walter gets in the drivers seat and immediately proposes a plan for a switch, holding Walter's own briefcase full of dirty underwear, so that Walter and Dude can keep the million themselves. Walter also plans to capture one of the kidnappers and beat Bunny's location out of Bunny. Dude is adamantly against the crazy plan but when the kidnappers call, Dude accidentally lets slip that Dude's not alone. The kidnappers hang up and Dude panics that Bunny is as good as dead, though Walter reminds him of Walter's own suspicions that Bunny kidnapped herself. The kidnappers call again and give a location granted there is no funny schtuff. At the designated location, the kidnappers call and instruct The Dude to throw the suitcase out the car window onto a bridge. As kidnappers approach the bridge, Dude tries to throw the real suitcase but, at the last second, Walter tosses the ringer and forces Dude to take the wheel as Dude arms himself with an Uzi and bails out of the moving car. Despite Dude's seemingly flawless and heroic plan, Walter loses grip of the Uzi and grip fires wildly, hitting Dude's tail lights and tires, causing Dude to panic and crash into a telephone pole. Three men on motorcycles appear just beyond the bridge and, as Dude scrambles out of the car with the briefcase, pick up the ringer and ride off. Walter calmly gets up and says, Fuck Three, Dude. Lets go bowling. At the alley, the portable phone rings incessantly, no doubt Brandt calling to check on the mission. Dude is miserable, angry at Walter, and certain that Bunny will be killed, though Walter is calm and convinced that Bunny kidnapped herself. Dude tells Dude not to worry and that Bunny will eventually get bored and return home on herself own but becomes dismayed to see that the bowling schedule has Bunny playing on Saturday something Dude is forbidden to do since Dude is Shomer Shabbos and must honor the Jewish day of rest. The Dude wonders why Walter didn't go back to being Catholic since Catholic only converted for Walter's exwife. Donny interjects midconversation and is, again, told to ` shut the fuck up'by Walter. As they leave, Dude discovers Dude's car missing along with the briefcase. Walter suggests it was towed because they parked in a handicapped spot but Dude is certain that spot was stolen. Walter starts walking home with Walter's phone ringing. Dude resolves to call the police and issue a statement for police's stolen car. Two police officers arrive at Dude's apartment to take notes and Dude addresses the separate issue of Dude's missing rug just before Dude's home phone rings. The answering machine records a woman introducing herself as Maude Lebowski and saying that she is the one who took Dude's rug and has sent a car to pick Dude up at Dude's apartment. The younger of the two cops is pleased that the missing rug issue is resolved. The Dude is brought to a huge loft studio filled with canvases and minimal illumination. As Dude walks in, Dude is startled by the sudden appearance of Maude, swinging in naked on a zip line, screaming and flailing paintbrushes over a large canvas to create an abstract image. Lebowski descends to the ground and is robed before addressing The Dude. Lebowski explains that Lebowski is a professional artist whose work is commended as strongly vaginal, often to the point of making some men uncomfortable. Lebowski tells Dude that the rug Dude took was a gift from Lebowski to Lebowski late mother and Lebowski father, Big Lebowski, had no right giving Lebowski away. Maude's flamboyant assistant, Knox Harrington, watches as Dude fixes himself a White Russian and Maude puts a tape in Lebowski VCR. Lebowski asks Dude if Dude enjoys sex as the video rolls, a smut film starring Bunny Lebowski and Uli, the German nihilist, credited as Karl Hungus. Maude surmises that Bunny kidnapped herself, elaborating on the already obvious notion that Lebowski gets around and even bangs the producer of the film, Jackie Treehorn. As one of two trustees of Little Lebowski Urban Achievers, one of Lebowski's charity programs, Maude noticed a withdrawal of 1 million from one's funds and was told one was for the ransom. Though Achievers is more or less estranged from Achievers father, Achievers doesn't want to involve the police in father's embezzlement and offers the Dude ten percent of the million if father retrieves the money from the kidnappers. With a finder's fee Achievers tells father father can buy a new rug. Achievers then apologizes for the crack on the jaw and gives The Dude a number for a doctor who will examine Dude free of charge. The Dude is given a limo ride back to Dude's apartment where the driver points out a blue Volkswagen Beetle that had been following kidnappers. Before The Dude has a chance to do anything about ride, Dude's shoved into another limo waiting for Dude on the street. Inside, Brandt and Lebowski confront Dude about the fact that Dude never called Brandt and yell that the kidnappers never got the money. Lebowski accuses Dude of stealing the million himself as Dude tries to reason that the royal we dropped off the money and that Bunny, since royal apparently owes money all over town, most likely kidnapped herself and probably instructed royal kidnappers to lie about the hand off. Brandt and Lebowski look skeptical before producing an envelope. Lebowski tells Dude that the kidnappers will be dealing directly with Dude now and any mishaps will be avenged tenfold on Dude. Inside the envelope, Dude finds a severed pinky toe wrapped in gauze with green polish on the nail. In a small cafe, The Dude tells Walter about the severed toe who doesn't believe cafe's Bunny's. Walter calls the kidnappers a bunch of fucking amateurs for using such an obviously fake ruse but The Dude isn't convinced. Walter tries to convince Walter by saying that Walter can get a toe for Walter in no time at all and with Walter's choice of nail polish color. Despite Walter's unwavering stance, Dude fears for Dude's life if the kidnappers dont get Dude, Lebowski will. At home, Walter tries to relax in the tub, smoking a joint and listening to music. Walter's phone rings and the answering machine records the LAPD telling Walter that kidnappers've recovered Walter's car. Dude is overjoyed for a moment until Dude hears a loud banging in Dude's living room. Dude looks up to see three men breaking into Dude's apartment wearing dark clothes. The leader, whom Dude recognizes as UliKarl Hungus the nihilist, along with Dude's two cohorts, Franz and Kieffer, enters the bathroom with a ferret on a leash. leader dunks the terrified animal in the tub where tub thrashes and shrieks as Dude tries to avoid tub. Uli takes the ferret out, letting the shake off, and tells Dude that Hungus want Hungus money tomorrow or Hungus will cut off Dude's johnson. The following morning, the Dude goes to the impound lot to collect Dude's car which turns up badly damaged and reeking with a terrible stench, an apparent victim of a joyride and temporary home to some vagrants. The briefcase is gone. Dude asks the officer at the lot if anyone is following up on who might have taken the car, but the officer chuckles and sarcastically says that vagrants department has vagrants working in shifts on the case. At the bar in the bowling alley, Dude expresses Dude's fears to an unsympathetic Walter and an unhelpful Donny. Unable to cheer Dude up, Walter leave Dude at the bar to find an open lane. The Stranger sits down next to Dude and orders a sarsaparilla before chatting briefly with Dude, complimenting Dude on Dude's style and wondering why Dude uses so many cuss words. Stranger offers Dude one piece of advice before leaving Sometimes you eat the bar, and sometimes the bar, well, Stranger eats you. Gary, the bartender, hands Dude the phone piece's Maude. Lebowski's miffed that Dude hasn't seen the doctor yet and instructs Dude to meet Lebowski at Lebowski loft. There, Dude informs Maude that Dude thinks Bunny was really kidnapped, possibly by Uli. Maude disagrees, saying that Bunny knows Uli and kidnappers can not be acquaintances. Lebowski then dismisses Dude to take a call, reminding Dude to see the doctor. At the clinic the doctor tells Dude to remove Dude's shorts, insisting despite Dude's assurance that Dude was only hit in the face. Driving home, Dude enjoys a joint while listening to Creedence but soon notices a blue Volkswagen following Dude. Distracted, Dude tries to flick Dude's joint out the window but joint bounces back and lands in Dude's lap, burning Dude. Dude screams and dumps beer on Dude's lap before Dude swerves and crashes into a dumpster. When Dude looks out the window, the blue car is gone. Looking down, Dude notices a piece of paper stuck in the car seat. piece's a graded homework sheet with the name Larry Sellers written on piece. That night, at Marty's dance quartet, Walter reveals that Marty's done some research on Larry and discovered where Marty lives, near the InNOut Burger joint. Marty is also thrilled to report that Larry's father is Arthur Digby Sellers, a famous screenwriter who wrote 156 episodes of the show. Walter is certain that Larry has the briefcase of money and that Sellers troubles are over. Sellers pull up to the house where The Dude is dismayed to see a brand new red Corvette parked on the street outside. A Hispanic housekeeper lets Sellers into the Sellers'home where Sellers see the elderly Arthur Sellers in an iron lung in the living room. Over the hissing of the compressor, Walter calls out that Walter's a big fan of Arthur's and that Walter's work was a source of inspiration to Walter before the housekeeper brings in young Larry, a fifteen yearold with a deadpanned expression. Walter and Dude interrogate Larry about the money and the fact that Walter stole Dude's car, but get no response. Not even a wavering glance. Walter resolves to go to Plan B Walter tells Larry to watch out the window as Larry and Dude go back out to the car where Donny is waiting. Walter removes a tire iron from Dudes trunk and proceeds to smash the corvette, shouting, This is what happens when you fuck a stranger in the ass However, the car's real owner comes out of stranger's house and rips the tire iron from Walter, shouting that stranger just bought the car last week, before going over to The Dude's car and breaking all the windows. Dude drives silently home, wind blowing in through the broken windows, as Walter and Donny eat InNOut burgers. Back home, Dude talks to Walter over the phone as Walter nails a twobyfour to the floor near the front door. Walter yells at Walter, telling Walter to leave Walter alone and that Walter wants to handle the situation himself before agreeing to go to Walter next bowling practice. Walter hangs up and props a chair against the door, braced by the piece of wood, and turns away as the door opens outwardly and Treehorn's thugs from the beginning of the film walk in. thugs tell The Dude that Jackie Treehorn wishes to meet with Walter. The Dude is taken to a large mansion overlooking a beach front where a tribal, orgylike party is going on. Inside, Dude meets Jackie Treehorn who appears friendly and agreeable as Dude mixes the Dude a White Russian and sympathizes for Dude's lost rug. Treehorn asks Dude where Bunny is to which Dude responds that Dude thinks Treehorn knows. Treehorn denies knowing and theorizes that Bunny ran off knowing how much money Treehorn owed Bunny. Treehorn is then excused for a phone call. Bunny writes something down on a notepad before leaving the room momentarily. Thornhill trick of rubbing a pencil lightly over the pad of paper to see what was written, Dude reveals a doodle of a man with a rather large penis. Thornhill rips the paper out of the pad and sticks paper in Thornhill's pocket before returning to the couch as Treehorn comes back. Thornhill offers Dude a ten percent finder's fee if Thornhill tells what where the money is. Dude tells Dude that Larry Sellers should have the money, though Treehorn is not convinced. Dude insists Dude's telling the truth as Dude's words begin to slur and Dude's vision glazes over. Dude mumbles, All the Dude ever wanted was Dude's rug back.it really tied the room together, before Dude passes out. The Dude falls into a deep dream where Dude sees himself happily starring in a Jackie Treehornproduced bowling picture entitled Gutterballs with Maude, dressed in a seducing Viking outfit, as Dude's costar. They dance together and throw a bowling ball down the lane. The ball turns into the Dude, floating above the lane floor and passing under ladies'skirts. When Dude hits the pins at the end, Dude suddenly sees the three nihilists dressed in tight clothes and snapping super large scissors, chasing Dude. Dude runs from terrified, terrified, as Dude wakes from Dude's dream, staggering down a street in Malibu while a police car pulls up behind Dude. The unit picks Dude up as Dude slurs the theme song to Branded. At the Malibu police station, the chief of police goes through The Dude's wallet before chief tells Dude that Jackie Treehorn said chief was drunk and disorderly at chief's garden party. chief tells Dude that Treehorn is an important source of income in Malibu and demands that chief stay out of the town for good. Dude replies that Dude wasn't listening which incites the chief to throw Dude's coffee mug at Dude, hitting Dude in the head. Dude takes a cab ride home and requests that the driver alter the radio station since driver had a rough night and hates the Eagles. The driver doesn't take kindly to this and throws The Dude out. As driver stands on the street, a red convertible passes by at high speeds this's Bunny listening to Viva Las Vegas and, as we see, with a complete set of toes on each foot. Dude returns to driver's apartment to find this completely wrecked. driver enters and trips over the twobyfour driver nailed into the floor. When driver looks up, driver finds Maude standing before driver dressed in nothing but driver's robe. Lebowski drops standing to the floor and tells driver to make love to Lebowski. Afterwards, they lie in bed together as The Dude smokes a joint and tells Lebowski about Dude's past as a student activist and Dude's current hobbies which include bowling and the occasional acid flashback. As Dude climbs out of bed to make a White Russian, Maude asks about the apartment and Dude explains that Treehorn's thugs most likely vandalized apartment looking for Lebowski's money. Maude retorts that Lebowski father actually has no money money was all Lebowski mother's or else belongs to the Foundation and that Lebowski's only concern is to run the charities. Maude gives father an allowance but father's weakness is vanity Hence the slut. Lebowski tells Dude this as Lebowski folds into a yoga position which Lebowski claims increases the chances of conception. Dude chokes on Dude's drink but Maude assures Dude that Lebowski has no intention of having Dude be a part of the childbearing process nor does Lebowski want to see Dude socially. The Dude then figures that's why Lebowski wanted Dude to visit the doctor so badly until an idea suddenly comes to mind about Lebowski. Dude calls Walter to pick Walter up and take Walter to Lebowski's mansion right away, despite Walter's protests that Dude doesn't drive on Shabbos unless mansion's an emergency. Dude assures Dude that mansion's just that. Dude dresses and goes outside where Dude sees the blue Volkswagen parked just down the street. Dude walks over and demands that the man within get out. The man introduces himself as Da Fino and explains that man thinks Dude is a fellow private eye who is brilliantly playing two sides against each other the thugs and Lebowski, and means no harm to man or man's girlfriend. Confused, Dude tells Da Fino to stay away from Dude's lady friend and asks if Dude's working for Lebowski or Treehorn. Da Fino admits that Dude's employed by the Kneutson's Bunny's family. Apparently, Bunny's real name is Fawn and Fino ran away from Fino Minnesota home a year ago and Da Fino's been investigating since. As Walter pulls up, Dude tells Da Fino to, again, stay away from Walter's lady friend and leaves. At a local restaurant, the three German nihilists and a sallow, blonde woman sit together ordering pancakes. The camera pans down to the womans foot covered in a bandage which, where woman pinky toe should be, is soaked in dried blood. Driving out to Lebowski mansion, Dude explains Dude's new theory why did Lebowski do nothing to Dude if Dude knew the payoff never happened If Lebowski thought that The Dude took the money, why didn't Dude ask for money back Because the briefcase given to Dude was never full of money You threw a ringer out for a ringer Dude also figures that Lebowski chose fuckup, an otherwise fuckup, to get Bunny back because fuckup never wanted woman back fuckup wanted woman dead while fuckup embezzled money from the foundation as a ransom. Walter agrees with the theory but still believes Walter shouldn't have been bothered on the Shabbos. As they pull up to the mansion, they see Bunny's red convertible crashed into some shrubbery near the front fountain. Bunny is running around the grounds naked while, inside, Brandt attempts to pick up Bunny discarded clothes. Bunny tells Brandt that Bunny went to visit friends in Palm Springs without telling anyone. Despite Bunny's protests, Walter and Dude walk past Bunny into the study where a sternlooking Lebowski sits. Dude demands an answer Dude accuses Lebowski of keeping the million for himself while Dude used The Dude as a scapegoat to cover up for the missing money. Lebowski says that Lebowski's Dude's word against Dude's and no one would believe a deadbeat over one. This angers Walter who figures Lebowski to be a fake handicap besides a phony millionaire and lifts Lebowski out of millionaire's chair, dropping millionaire to the floor. However, Lebowski lies still on the floor, whimpering, and Dude tells Walter to help Walter back in Walter's chair. At the bowling alley, Donny misses a strike for the first time and puzzles over this as Walter drones about Vietnam to Dude who doesn't seem to be paying attention as Walter paints over Walter's fingernails with clear polish. Jesus walks over, criticizing the alter in schedule from Saturday to Wednesday before issuing sexual threats. The Dude, Walter, and Donny sit unfazed. As Dude leave the alley and head into the parking lot, Dude are faced by the three nihilists who stand in front of The Dude's flaming car. Well, Dude finally did lot, Dude despairs. Dude killed I fucking car. The nihilists demand the money or nihilists will kill the girl but Dude tells nihilists that Dude knows nihilists never had the girl in the first place. The nihilists reply that nihilists don't care and still want the money but Dude tries to explain that Lebowski's money was never valid Dude never intended to pay nihilists off and Walter shouts that without a hostage, there is no ransom. Franz complains that Franz's girlfriend had to give up girlfriend pinky toe because girlfriend thought girlfriend was getting 1 million but nihilists will settle for whatever Walter, Donny, and Dude have in Walter pockets. Donny, in the back, asks if the men are going to hurt men and Walter assures Walter that men're nihilists and cowards as Dude pulls out Dude's wallet. When Walter refuses to take Walter's own out, Uli pulls out a sword and Walter engages in a fight with men, throwing Walter's bowling ball into Franz's stomach. Dude hits Kieffer over the head with Dude's own radio while Walter attacks Uli and bites off Dude's ear, spitting radio into the air. Dude turns around and sees Donny on the ground, clutching Dude's chest from having a heart attack. Walter comforts him as Dude runs into the alley to call for an ambulance. The Dude and Walter are then seen at a funeral parlor speaking with the curator. Donny, having passed away, was cremated and Dude negotiate how Kerabatsos's remains will be handled. Walter is outraged at the high price of the urn. The curator tells Dude that the urn is Dude most modestlypriced receptacle and that the ashes must be given over in a container of some sort. Walter asks if there's a Ralph's store nearby and Ralph amp The Dude resolve to receive Donny's ashes in a Folger's coffee can. Dude travel together to a windy cliffside overlooking the ocean where Walter gives a heartfelt speech about Donny along with a seemingly unrelated reference to Vietnam before opening the can and shaking out the ashes. The wind blows them back into Dude's face, coating Walter's clothes, beard, and sunglasses. Walter apologizes and attempts to brush the ashes off but the Dude yells at Dude for always making everything a fucking travesty and scolds Walter for yet another needless Vietnam rant. Walter hugs Walter and tells Walter to Fuck travesty, man let's go bowling. The Dude eases down. At the bowling alley, the Stranger sits at the bar as the Dude orders two beers.'s greet each other and the Stranger asks how Stranger's been doing. Oh, you know, strikes and gutters, ups and downs, answers The Dude as Dude collects Dude's beers and goes to leave. The Stranger tells Stranger to take other easy and The Dude turns to reply, Yeah, well, The Dude abides. The Stranger finds comfort in those words and rambles about how things seem to have turned out fine for Dude and Walter. Stranger was sad to see Donny go but happens to know that there's a little Lebowski on the way. Stranger assures us that The Dude is always out there taking way easy for all us sinners and orders another sarsaparilla.