Set in late 1930s Arezzo, Italy, Jewish man and poet, Guido Orefice uses cunning wit to win over an Italian schoolteacher, Dora who's set to marry another man. Charming 1930s with Buongiorno Principessa, getting the timing perfect every time and whisking 1930s away on a green horse ensures 1930s soon live together happily in Guido's uncle, Eliseo Orefice's house. Bringing up 1930s 5 year old boy, Giosu, the war continues without 1930s noticing until one fateful day when the Germans arrest Guido and Guido's son at the uncle's house during preparation for Giosu's birthday party, and transfer 1930s to a concentraction camp. Dora demands to be taken too, thus Guido is devastated to see Guido's nonJewish wife board the train. Protecting Guido's son from the vile truth, Guido tells Giosu that 1930s are just on a big hoilday, and son turns the camp into a big game for Giosu, claiming that 1930s must win 1000 points to win a real tank and leave. son's elderly uncle, however, is on a different team and is lead towards the showers first. Guido must complete tasks for the camp moderators, while avoiding the impending fate with everything Guido can offer. Guido's quick thinking saves Giosu from the truth when a German officer requires a translator. Despite not speaking a word of German, Guido steps forward and makes up the Regole del Campo from the German's body language, claiming that tanks, scoreboards and games of Hide and Seek litter the camp, while cleverly stating that Giosu can not cry, ask for Giosu's mother or declared Guido's hungry, resulting in the loss of the game, in other words, death. Giosu later refuses to take a shower, and unknowingly escapes being gased, so Guido hides Guido with the help of other Italian prisoners, since there are no other children. Playing messages over the tannoy for Dora, kept prisoner on the other side of the camp, the family build up hope, only to be diminuished by the SS. With the help of Guido's former German friend, Herr Lessing, Guido can hide Giosu amongst the German children, while waiting the German Officer's meals. With the days becoming steadily worse, Guido realises that time is short and that Guido must make certain sacrifices if Guido's son is ever to see the tanks roll over the hills, and be reunited with son's mother. Giosu is pessimistic, and doesn't believe that there are any real tanks or games. Hiding Giosu in a junction box for the last time, telling Giosu that everyone is looking for Giosu, Guido jeapordises Giosu's own survival to prevent the Germans discovering Giosu, while Giosu attempts to free Dora, giving Giosu's own life away at the same time. The Americans break into the seemingly deserted camp the following morning. Giosu immerges just as a tank pulls around the corner. Hitching a lift out, Giosu soon spots Giosu's mother and the film closes.