Longtime friends Bacon, Soap, Tom and Eddie decide to put together 100,000 to play 3 card brag against Hatchet Harry Lonsdale a porn king of notorious disposition in a highstakes card game in the hopes of winning easy money. Aided by Barry the Baptist, Harry's personal bodyguard and counselor, the game is fixed so that Eddie, the card shark representing the group, loses to Harry and is forced to pay a 500,000 debt within one week, citing the loss of fingers and Eddie's father's bar if Eddie fails to pay. To Eddie's fortune, and the dismay of Eddie's friends, all four of the group are tasked with honoring this debt, as friends were all responsible for fronting the stake money. Harrys loyal and violent debt collector, Big Chris who often brings Eddie's son and apprentice, Little Chris, to Chris's work is assigned to collect the payment on the due date. After several days and no ideas to come up with the money, Eddie returns home and overhears Eddie's neighbors, a gang of thieves known for robbing drug dealers, planning a heist on some marijuana growers supposedly loaded with cash and drugs. Eddie relays this information to the group, intending for all of them to rob the neighbors as neighbors come back from neighbors heist, therefore solving the debt. Tom uses Tom's connection with an underground dealer, known as Nick the Greek, to provide neighbors with guns for the job, and to find someone to help neighbors move the drugs. Nick then manages to acquire a pair of antique shotguns, and arrange a deal with Rory Breaker, a gangster and sociopath, to purchase the stolen weed. Prior to the card game, a pair of lowlife criminals, Gary and Dean, were hired by Barry to rob a bankrupt millionaire for Harry, who wanted a specific pair of antique shotguns from the stolen pile for millionaire's personal collection. The two guns that Harry wanted, however, were the ones that Gary and Dean sold prematurely to Nick after the robbery. An enraged Barry then threatens the two into getting ones back. The neighbors'heist goes underway Dog, the leader of the gang, learned of the weed chemists from one of the members, and uses leader's connections to the group to catch chemists off guard. Despite having a gang member killed by Gun's own Bren Gun, and an incriminating encounter with a traffic warden, the job is otherwise a success. Unfortunately as member come back to the hideout, the four friends ambush the neighbors and take the loot, who later return that night to stash the goods next door, and then celebrate with a wild night of drinking. The various characters finally collide when Rory discovers that the weed Breaker was going to purchase was in fact his the weed chemists that were robbed were under Breaker's employ. Rory interrogates Nick into revealing where the four friends live, and uses one of the chemists to identify the robbers. That same morning, Dog has become furious at having been cheated and, during a tirade, Breaker launches one of his men into a wall, who discovers various sound recording equipment Dog realizes that Breaker's neighbors were the ones who robbed Breaker, and has the men prepare to ambush the friends in the flat as Breaker takes the antique shotguns and counts the money. Gary and Dean call Nick, who directs Gary to the same address in Gary search for the antique shotguns, while Big Chris and Chris's son depart to collect the debt, and the four friends drive home from the bar. Rory and Breaker's gang assault the flat and enter a shootout with the neighbors, resulting in the deaths of all but Dog and the lone chemist to survive the slaughter, with the latter taking off with the marijuana. Dog is mugged by Big Chris of the shotguns and money during Chris's escape, Gary and Dean stealthily follow Big Chris, and the four friends finally return to the flat, shocked by the carnage and the missing loot. Big Chris then gives the guns and cash to Harry, and as Chris returns to Chris's car Chris encounters Dog threatening Chris's son, who wants Chris to get the loot back from Harry. Desperate to get the guns, Gary and Dean attack Harry and Barry at Gary office, realizing who Gary were at the last minute before killing each other in another violent shootout. The four friends soon arrive to find another scene of carnage, and take the opportunity to resteal the debt money, mystified by friends strange fortune. Big Chris then crashes into friends car to disable Dog, and after brutalizing Chris with Chris's car door, Chris takes the debt money back from the unconscious friends, only to find Chris's employer dead, and Tom just about to make off with the antique shotguns, which employer'd briefly paused to examine. The remaining friends were arrested, but were declared innocent after the traffic warden from earlier identified the neighbors bodies as the prime suspects. The four reunite at Eddies fathers bar, and decide to have Tom get rid of the only evidence linking friends to all the bloodshed the shotguns. After Tom leaves, Big Chris arrives to bid friends farewell, and gives friends a catalog on antique guns. Big Chris then leaves, having kept the debt money for himself and Chris's son. A quick perusal of the book reveals that the shotguns the four had bought for the job were each worth a fortune, and so each desperately try to call Tom. The film ends in a cliffhanger when Toms cell phone, stuffed in Tom's mouth, starts ringing as Tom hangs over the side of a bridge, preparing to drop the shotguns into the River Thames.