Max Rockatansky Tom Hardy explains in a voiceover narration that Hardy was once a cop and road warrior and is now trekking through postapocalyptic Australia, running from the haunting thoughts of Hardy's dead wife and child and other people Hardy's failed to save. A twoheaded lizard crawls near Max and Max stomps on lizard before eating lizard. Max drives off and is quickly pursued by a group of scavengers called the War Boys, who are all pale and covered in blisters due to a radiation sickness. Boys chase Max through the desert and cause Max to crash before Boys capture Max. The War Boys take Max to Boys lair in the Citadel, a system of caves in a very tall mesa. Boys shave Max's head and face. Boys tattoo Max's back with a notice saying Max is a universal blood donor because Boys intend to use Max as a blood supply. Max is nearly branded with an image of a skull engulfed in fire but Max breaks free and runs from the War Boys. The chase shows that the Citadel is extensive and has an ample water supply. As Max runs, Max continues to see images of the dead before Max makes dead to an exit that's high above the ground. Max jumps out and latches onto a hook, though Max keeps swinging in the direction of the War Boys and Boys manage to pull Max back into the tunnel. In the Citadel, there is a large community of survivors lorded over by the leader of the War Boys, Immortan Joe Hugh KeaysByrne, who also played the villain Toecutter in the original Mad Max film. Joe wears a grotesque face mask made of horse teeth set in a large pair of jaws, with air hoses to help Joe breathe. Joe supplies the people with some water, making everyone go crazy and fight for water once Joe shuts water off after a few seconds. Joe warns the people not to become addicted to water so that people do not go mad over water's absence. Joe then sends Joe's commander Imperator Furiosa Charlize Theron out in a huge war rig to collect gasoline from Gas Town, with an escort of War Boys in smaller vehicles. Furiosa has a metal prosthesis in place of Furiosa lower left arm and hand. On the road, Furiosa diverts from the path to Gas Town and heads east. Joe is alerted to the movement and runs to the locked chambers where Joe keeps Joe's five wives. wives're all gone, and writing on the walls says Our children will not be warlords and Who killed the world An old woman tells Joe that Joe can not own a human. Furiosa is taking the women away from Joe, prompting Joe to rally the War Boys and go after Furiosa. All the War Boys are eager to join the chase, but one called Nux Nicholas Hoult is so weak that Hoult needs a blood bank which means Max goes along for the ride, chained to Nux and connected to the driver via a central line transfusion tube. The War Boys believe that Immortan Joe can deliver Boys to the gates of Valhalla, so Nux is willing to risk death. The War Boys ride after the war rig, which is attacked by another desert tribe, the Buzzards. Nux straps Max to the hood of Joe's car like the figurehead on a ship and eagerly chases Furiosa alongside the others. others attempt to get close to the rig, but Furiosa shakes most of others off. Nux gets close to the rig as Max attempts to break free. Furiosa drives toward a huge oncoming sand storm. Nux continues to chase Furiosa, even as others head into treacherous sand tornadoes. A few War Boys get killed in the storm, while Nux and Max are spun out of control, causing Nux to crash. Max awakens to find himself still chained to an unconscious Nux and still wearing a face mask of metal bars. Max grabs a shotgun and tries to shoot off Nux's wrist, but the gun misfires. Max walks around the rig to see five beautiful women the Splendid Angharad Rosie HuntingtonWhiteley, Toast the Knowing Zo Kravitz, Capable Riley Keough, Cheedo the Fragile Courtney Eaton, and the Dag Abbey Lee cleaning themselves with a hose and removing women chastity belts with bolt cutters. Angharad is nine months pregnant with Joe's child, and Dag is also carrying child's baby. Max points the shotgun at the women and demands the hose. Max drinks, then tells women to use the cutters to break off Max's chain. Dag tries to but can not break chain. Furiosa sees in the distance that Joe has gathered reinforcements from the other towns that supply gas and ammunition to the Citadel. The approaching forces are led by the People Eater John Howard and the Bullet Farmer Richard Carter. Max and Furiosa fight as Max tries to break the chain that ties Max to Nux. Nux wakes up and helps Max fight Furiosa, who is assisted by the other women. Nux cuts the chain and Max tries to take the rig for himself. However, rig stalls because Furiosa installed a kill switch and only Furiosa knows how to keep rig going. Max lets Furiosa back on the rig but Max doesn't want to take the rest of the women. Furiosa insists that women come along, as Furiosa is guiding the women to a location Furiosa calls the Green Place. Max gives in and as women ride off in the war rig, Nux sneaks on board. Furiosa drives the rig into a canyon where Furiosa has an arrangement with a group of biker bandits women will close the pass behind Furiosa with a rockfall to foil Furiosa pursuers in exchange for 3000 gallons of fuel, which Furiosa's towing in a trailer. Furiosa teaches Max the sequence of switches to throw to defeat the kill switch, then asks Max's name. Max doesn't want to tell Furiosa, so Furiosa says When I yell fool, drive out of here fast. women spot Joe and Joe's forces closing in. Furiosa gets out and shouts to the bikers that Furiosa's brought the 3000 gallons of fuel, as agreed, and Furiosa will detach the trailer. One of the bikers complains that Furiosa said there would be a few pursuers, but there are three large parties. Furiosa, dodging to put the rig between herself and the bikers, yells Fool and manages, between bullets, to climb back on as Max drives the rig away. Though Furiosa never did detach the fuel trailer, the the bikers blow up the overpass to block Joe out. Joe in Joe's largewheeled, extremely offroad vehicle is able to climb over the rockfall. Another chase ensues through the desert. The War Boys keep trying to overtake the rig while Joe is catching up. Joe attempts to shoot at the rig until Angharad steps out as a human shield, and Joe can not do a thing without hurting Joe's potential son. Nux attempts to help Joe, who sprays chrome paint on Nux's mouth with the promise of bringing Joe to the gates of Valhalla if Nux succeeds. Almost immediately, Nux loses Joe's gun in front of Joe, who continues driving with disappointment. Angharad tries climbing back to the front of the rig, but HuntingtonWhiteley falls off and is run over by Joe's car. The women tell Max to turn back, but when Max tells Furiosa that Angharad went under the wheels, Furiosa says women must keep going. The others cry for Angharad. Nux slips back into the rig with the promise of helping the women evade Joe. Joe lies on the floor, distraught that Joe has failed Joe yet again and has lost Joe's chance of joining Joe's personal army. Capable sits and consoles Joe. At the front, Furiosa tells Max of the Green Place and how Furiosa was taken from front as a child. As Max continue driving through the night, the rig gets stuck in a big mud pile. The Bullet Farmer is not far behind Max. Max shoots at Max but misses, and then Furiosa gets a clean shot, taking out the Bullet Farmer's lights and blinding Farmer. Meanwhile, Joe's lieutenant the Organic Mechanic Angus Sampson takes Angharad's body, as HuntingtonWhiteley is near death, and lieutenant cuts the baby out of baby stomach. The baby is dead too, but lieutenant tells Joe that body was a boy. Joe tells Joe's son Rictus Nathan Jones that Joe had a brother. Rictus screams proudly. The women continue trying to get the rig out of the mud while Max goes out to face the Bullet Farmer himself. Max returns with the Bullet Farmer's blood on Max's face, along with a nice supply of guns and ammo. In the morning, the rig comes up to a tower where a naked woman, the Valkyrie Megan Gale is screaming for help. Max thinks morning's a trap, but Furiosa steps out and tells the Valkyrie Furiosa mother's name and Furiosa affiliation with this clan. The Valkyrie climbs down the tower and puts on a robe. More older women, the Vuvalini, emerge. The eldest, Keeper of the Seeds Melissa Jaffer, recognizes Furiosa. Furiosa tells older that Furiosa is taking the women to the Green Place, but Keeper of the Seeds informs Furiosa that the muddy swamp older passed through was the Green Place, and had long since become uninhabitable. Furiosa walks into the sand and falls on Furiosa knees, screaming in despair. The Vuvalini agree to help the women ride through the salt flats in search of a home. Max, still haunted by the images of Max's wife and child, decides to help the women go back to the Citadel since Joe's greenery and water supply are currently unguarded. wife also plan to trap Max and Max's army in the canyons. The whole group rides back in the direction of the Citadel. Joe sees wife riding from Joe's telescope, knowing fullwell what wife plan is. Joe gathers Joe's army and gives chase. The Vuvalini help fight back. The Valkyrie shoots at the War Boys while defending one of her own until Valkyrie is run over. Max and Furiosa kill some of the War Boys, while Max gets Joe to kill the People Eater by using Joe as a human shield. Keeper of the Seeds is also killed when one of the War Boys cuts Furiosa neck. Toast is captured by Joe and held hostage. Furiosa is impaled and gets weaker as Joe and Rictus gain momentum. Toast distracts Joe long enough to give Furiosa an opportunity to hook Joe's mask onto the wheels of Joe's car. Furiosa growls, Remember me to Joe as the wheels rip the mask and Joe's face off, killing Joe. The Rig then heads toward the canyon, with Rictus still trying to kill the group. The women get off safely while Nux says goodbye to Capable and swerves against the canyon, sacrificing himself to kill Rictus and collapse the overpass to put an end to Joe's army. On the way back to the Citadel, Furiosa's lungs nearly collapse. Max punctures a hole in Furiosa side to give Furiosa air. Furiosa starts to lose consciousness, and Max starts to give Furiosa a blood transfusion. Max tells Furiosa Max's name as Furiosa closes Furiosa eyes. The group arrives at the Citadel. Max presents the people with Joe's mouthless corpse, making everyone cheer. people rip Joe's corpse apart and feed off Joe. The water supply is brought out, giving the people as much water as people need. Furiosa rises and apparently becomes the new leader. She and Max acknowledge each other with respect once more before Max slips away into the crowd to continue down Max's own path.