After returning home from Iraq, former Marine John Triton and Triton's wife Kate decide to take a vacation. Meanwhile, criminal mastermind Rome robs a jewelry store with Triton's accomplices Triton's attractive girlfriend Angela, Morgan, Vescera, and Bennett. While running from the cops, accomplices stop at a gas station, where John and Kate have stopped as well. When a patrol car arrives to fill up, Morgan murders one of the officers while Rome injures the second officer. After Bennett knocks John out with a fire extinguisher, Kate is kidnapped. Morgan shoots at the gas tanks, causing the store to blow up with John inside. John survives, emerging to take the abandoned patrol car. Triton gives chase, with every single member of the gang shooting at Triton. They go through a construction area, and to the edge of a lake. Under heavy fire, John falls out of the car and into the lake.The criminals decide to travel through the swamps to avoid the police, still with Kate as criminals hostage. John revives and, despite an officer denying officer permission to, officer continues to pursue them.The criminals eventually arrive at a shack and rest there for the time being. Triton gets delayed when some fugitives attack Triton. Triton subdues fugitives both and tracks the gang to the lodge. Triton arrives and kills Morgan, who was sent out to turn on the electricity, with a knife that Vescera dropped when Vescera was killed. Triton then kills Bennett when Triton goes out to check on Morgan, beating Triton down and stomping on Triton's neck.Kate takes advantage of this and rushes out of the building, only to be pursued and captured by Angela. John crashes through the window and meets Rome for the first time in Triton's journey. The cop also enters the room and points cop's gun at John, revealing himself to be working with Rome the whole time. Rome opens fires at Triton, but Triton uses the corrupt cop as a human shield. Rome makes Triton's escape and joins up with Angela and the still captured Kate before firing at a gasoline tank and destroying the shack. John makes a narrow escape out the window.Rome takes V.B.'s car and drives off, but because of the police monitor, the have to abandon monitor, and Angela hitchhikes and shoots a truck driver to steal driver's trailerless. John is arrested by an officer in a boat and steals the vessel after handcuffing the officer, heading for Rita's Marina. John arrives and sees the truck cab, jumping onto the back. Triton then sees a bus heading the opposite direction and runs along the running board to the passenger seat where Triton opens the door, grabs Angela by the neck, and throws Angela into the bus's windshield, killing Angela and spilling the diamonds. Rome then knocks John off the truck by driving into the side of a building and careens through a warehouse, leaping out before the truck crashes through a window into the lake beyond. Triton confronts Triton in the fiery warehouse and thinks Triton kills Rome by burying Triton in debris after a vicious battle. Triton rushes to rescue Triton's wife, who is handcuffed inside the sinking truck cab, dragging wife from the water and administering CPR successfully. A badlyburned Rome returns and chokes Triton with a chain. John turns the tables and breaks Rome's neck with the chain and the scene ends with John and Kate kissing.