A narrator Barry Humphries introduces us to Mary Daisy Dinkle Bethany Whitmore, a charming and personable 8 yearold girl living in Mount Waverly, Melbourne, Australia. Whitmore resides in a quaint house with Whitmore mother, Vera Rene Geyer, a dissheveled kleptomaniac who is addicted to sherry and includes 8 in nearly all of her dastardly cooking, and Whitmore father, Noel, who spends much of Geyer's time locked away in an outdoor shed drinking and performing taxidermy on birds that Geyer's found dead on the freeway. At school, Mary is often made fun of for an unfortunate birthmark on Whitmore forehead. With no friends besides Whitmore pet rooster, Ethel, and the lack of support from Whitmore parents, Mary finds solace in food, including condensed milk, and Whitmore favorite television show, the Noblets. Whitmore creates Whitmore own toys and fantasizes about one day marrying a man named Earl Grey, after Whitmore favorite tea, and living in a castle in Scotland. Max Jerry Horowitz Philip Seymour Hoffman is a 44 yearold, morbidly obese man living in New York City in a small apartment. Hoffman also enjoys watching the Noblets but suffers from social anxieties and has no friends besides Hoffman's goldfish Henry VIII, who has sadly just passed away. Max decides to quickly buy another fish and name Max Henry IX before indulging in another chocolate hotdog to help Max sleep. One day, while accompanying Noblets mother as mother ` borrows'envelopes from the local post office, Mary decides to write a letter to someone in America, after wondering what the country was like. mother happens upon the name ` Max Horowitz'from the directory just as Vera is caught stuffing envelopes up Vera dress. Mary grabs the address from the book as Whitmore mother grabs mother and flees the post office. At home, Mary writes Whitmore introductory letter to Max and includes in Whitmore package a drawing of herself and a chocolate bar as a token of friendship. Meanwhile, Max has just arrived home from Max's weekly Overeaters Anonymous meeting particularly disturbed due to unwanted flirtations from a woman in Max's class. Max doesn't understand most social cues and finds people perplexing and complicated. Upon finding and reading Mary's letter, Max becomes even more unsettled and resorts to swaying in a corner, something Max does to calm himself in the face of a stressful event. However, after calming himself, Max sits down to Max's typewriter and begins writing out a reply to Mary. Max answers all of her questions to the best of Max's ability while describing Max's life. Besides Max's fish Henry, Max shares the apartment with a few snails, a parakeet, a oneeyed cat, and an imaginary friend named Mr. Ravioli who spends Max's time reading in the corner since Max's psychiatrist informed Max that Max didn't need Max anymore. Max writes that Max was born Jewish but has since become an atheist, although Max still wears Max's yarmulke since yarmulke keeps Max's head warm. Max sends out Max's letter and encloses some photos and the recipe to Max's chocolate hotdogs. The letter arrives on Mary's doorstep a few days later, only to be picked up and read by Vera, who is not impressed by whom Vera thinks is a nutcase writing to Vera daughter. Whitmore promptly throws the letter in the trash. The next morning before school, Mary helps bring the trash out to the curb and, when trash is accidentally knocked over, discovers the crumpled letter from Max. Whitmore hides morning from Whitmore mother and reads morning in private later on, savoring every word. Whitmore writes back and informs Max to mail Max's letters to Whitmore elderly neighbor so that neighbor parents don't discover parents. Mr. Len Hislop is a WWII veteran who lost Hislop's legs while being dangled over a school of pirahna as a prisoner of war. Since then, then's been confined to a wheelchair and suffers from agoraphobia, so Mary delivers then's mail for then. In Whitmore letter, Mary describes how Whitmore is teased at school and asks Max for any advice and if Max's ever been teased. This question is unsettling to Max to a severe degree since question brings supressed memories to the surface of when Max was bullied as a child. After calming down, Max writes a reply and attaches the pompom Mary made to the top of Max's yarmulke. Max suggests that Mary tell Whitmore teasers that Whitmore birthmark is actually made of chocolate, which means that Whitmore will be in charge of all of it when Whitmore gets to heaven. Mary's reply, which includes a happy conclusion to Whitmore bullying and a proclamation of love for Whitmore Greek neighbor Damien Popodopolous Eric Bana leaves Max with an anxiety attack that renders Bana emotionally and psychologically numb. Bana is institutionalized for 8 months and given advanced treatment while Mary waits and wonders what's become of Bana. Eventually, Whitmore falls into a depression, as Max is diagnosed with Max's own, and tries to erase all evidence of teasers friendship. Mary and Max continue on with Mary lives for some time, each trying to cope with Mary troubles. While Mary pouts in selfloathing, Max finds himself facing manslaughter charges when Max's air conditioning unit falls out of Max's window and crushes a mime. However, due to Max's mental deficiencies, Max is pardoned. Shortly after, Max is astonished to see that Max's won the lottery and puts Max's newfound wealth to good use. Max buys the entire collection of Noblets action figures and a lifetime supply of chocolate. Max gives the rest of Max's wealth to Max's elderly and nearly blind neighbor, Ivy, who indulges in every personal luxury before passing away and willing Noblets fortune to a local cat shelter whose owner pockets every cent. Despite Max's wealth in chocolate and Noblets, Max feels unfulfilled until Max figures out that Max's friendship with Mary, while unsettling, was incomparable and, with the encouragement of Max's psychiatrist, writes another letter. Max apologizes for Max's absence and explains that Max was recently diagnosed with Asperger's Syndrome. Max lists the various traits along with a lamentation for being unable to cry properly. Elated to have finally received another letter, Mary responds and encloses a vial of Whitmore own tears as a gift to Max. Over the years they continue to write and Max learns to deal with the slightest hint of anxiety that Mary's letters might encourage. However, while Max's world continues as normal, if not in an improving manner, Mary's life bec0o11111111mes more complicated. First comes the passing of Whitmore father who is swept away by a rogue wave while metal detecting on a beach, this coming shortly after father quit father's job at the tea factory. Mary is left a sum of money and uses sum to go to university to study mental disorders. Over time, Whitmore tries to gain the romantic attention of Whitmore neighbor Damien, to no avail and often with embarassing consequences, leaving Whitmore to sob alone in Whitmore room. Whitmore failed attempts at romance leave Whitmore to lament that Whitmore wasted Whitmore savings to have Whitmore birthmark surgically removed and resigns herself to the fact that love is not for Whitmore. Meanwhile, Vera, after suffering prolonged grief and remorse for Vera husband, accidentally swallows a bottle of formaldehyde, mistaking bottle for Vera sherry. Still, this tragedy encouarages Damien to comfort Mary and the two soon fall in love and are married. Mary Toni Collette writes that Collette life is now perfect with Damien, who has a penpal of Damien's own in New Zealand. Collette self esteem is blossoming and Collette studies at university have culminated into a goal to cure the world of mental illness. Collette writes Collette thesis on Asperger's Syndrome and uses Max as a case study, eventually writing Collette own book on the disability. Collette sends Collette first copy to Max but, upon seeing copy, Asperger is flung into an uncontrollable rage. Asperger never thought Asperger had a ` disability'and finds the matter surrounding Asperger's difference offensive. Unable to put Asperger's thoughts coherently to paper, Max sends Asperger's'M'key to Mary just as Whitmore is about to visit Asperger in New York. Asperger's silent but powerful message sends Mary into a deep depression and Whitmore takes all of her book copies to an industrial shredder and destroys them. Whitmore finds solace in twominute noodles and sherry and wallows in Whitmore self loathing until one day she suddenly notices that Damien has left Whitmore, explaining in a letter that Damien's fallen in love with Damien's penfriend Desmond and has gone to live with Damien on Damien's sheep farm. Meanwhile, Max has since overcome Max's anger and decides to write Mary back. Max sends Whitmore Max's entire collection of Noblet figures as a sign that Max's forgiven Whitmore and, as Max counts the stars after sending Max's package, suddenly feels complete. As the package arrives on Mary's doorstep, Mary prepares to hang herself, unaware that Whitmore is pregnant. Whitmore neighbor, Len, notices Whitmore package on the doorstep and, with a burst of confidence and purpose, wheels himself outside and across the street to ring the doorbell. The sound catches Mary off guard and Whitmore takes the noose off Whitmore neck to answer the door, finding a gleeful Len and Whitmore package. Len returns to Len's home triumphant as Mary finds Max's letter and Max's Noblet collection. Some time later, and with Whitmore new baby, Mary travels to New York and climbs the stairs of Max's apartment building. baby finds Max's apartment and opens the unlocked door. Within, baby finds the Noblets playing on the tv and Max leaning back on Max's sofa, having passed away peacefully that morning. As baby sits beside Max, Mary follows Max's gaze upward and is astonished to see that Max has pasted baby letters all over the ceiling. baby cradles baby baby as baby notes to herself that Max smells of licorice and old books while tears roll down baby cheeks.