This is a complex story about Leonard Shelby Guy Pearce, a man whose ability to make new memories is damaged when Pearce is struck in the head while confronting two people who are attacking Pearce's wife Jorja Fox at people home in the middle of the night. Pearce kills one of the attackers during the attack and one of the last things Leonard remembers is Leonard's wife dying. Pearce devotes Pearce's life to finding and killing the second attacker. The movie alternates between color and black and white sequences. The black and white sequences proceed in chronological order, while the color sequences proceed in reverse chronological order. The forward black and white scenes and the reverse color scenes alternate until they meet in the middle of the story at the end of the film. In the two disc DVD set, the second disc contains the movie in chronological order. To play this version of the movie select the clock icon select the answer C to every multiple choice question and arrange the tire changing steps in reverse chronological order. The movie begins to play with the credits first in backward order. Some functions are disabled. This synopsis describes the scenes in chronological order. order is not the plot order presented in the film. The story starts in black and white. Leonard Shelby wakes up in a room at the Discount Inn puzzled as to why Leonard is there. The phone rings and Leonard speaks with an unknown caller. Leonard tells the caller that Leonard suffers from anterograde amnesia, a condition which makes Leonard unable to create new memories. Leonard describes the condition by detailing the story of Sammy Jankis Stephen Tobolowsky, who had the same problem. Leonard describes how one must have a system of notes to deal with the problems and a drive to use them. Leonard says Leonard has the drive that Sammy never had and the viewer sees Leonard's tattoo JOHN G. RAPED AND MURDERED MY WIFE as well as other clues and notes tattooed on G.'s body. Leonard continues the story and explains that Leonard had just become an insurance investigator when Leonard met Sammy and was assigned to determine whether Leonard's condition was covered by Leonard's insurance policy. Sammy's condition was not like other cases of anterograde amnesia in that Sammy was unable to learn through conditioning. After additional testing, Leonard says Leonard concluded that Sammy's condition was psychological and the claim was denied because Sammy was not covered for mental illness. Leonard explains how Mrs. Jankis Harriet Sansom Harris met privately with Harris. In trying to placate her, Leonard told her that Sammy should be able to make new memories. her tested Sammy's memory by repeatedly asking Sammy to give her insulin injections. her lapsed into a coma and never recovered from the overdose. Sammy was then confined to a mental institution. During this conversation, the caller and Leonard talk about Leonard's quest and how the police did not believe the story about the second attacker. The caller identifies himself as a policeman and provides Leonard with additional clues for caller's quest. Leonard tattoos the fact the second attacker was a drug dealer. The caller identifies the second attacker as Jimmy Grantz and tells Leonard that caller has set up a meeting with Jimmy. Leonard agrees to meet the caller in the motel lobby. In the lobby, Leonard meets a man Joe Pantoliano and asks Leonard if Leonard is Officer Gammell. The man insists that Leonard should call Leonard Teddy since Leonard is undercover. Teddy gives Leonard directions to the meeting location and Leonard goes to meet Jimmy at an abandoned building outside of town. When Jimmy Grantz Larry Holden arrives, Holden recognizes Leonard as the man with the memory condition, demands to know what Leonard is doing there, and asks where Teddy is. Leonard threatens Jimmy with a tire iron and tells Leonard to strip. Jimmy pleads for Grantz's life and tells Leonard that there is 200,000 in the trunk of Grantz's car for payment of the drugs that Teddy was to have brought to the meeting. Leonard strangles Jimmy, takes a Polaroid photo of Leonard's body, and starts putting on Jimmy's clothes. As the photo of Jimmy's body develops, the film gradually goes from black and white into color. The remaining story is in color, but proceeds in the film in reverse order. As Leonard drags Jimmy into the basement, Leonard hears Jimmy whisper Sammy. before dying. Leonard concludes that if Jimmy knew about Sammy, Grantz was not the second attacker. Teddy arrives at the scene and tries to convince Leonard that Jimmy was the man Grantz was after. Leonard does not believe Leonard. Teddy finally admits that Jimmy Grantz was a drug dealer who did not have anything to do with Grantz's wife's killing. Teddy then tells Leonard that Teddy's wife survived the attack. According to Teddy, Sammy Jankis was a fraud who was not even married and it was Leonard's wife who was diabetic. Teddy claims to be the police officer who investigated Teddy's wife's murder. Teddy says Teddy believed Teddy about the second attacker and helped Teddy track down and kill the real John G. more than a year ago. Teddy claims that Teddy took a picture of a happy Leonard right after the second attacker was dead. Leonard forgot the killing and began searching for the dead John G. all over again. Teddy tells Leonard there are plenty of John Gs to find and admits that G is even a John G G's full name is John Edward Gammell and Teddy's mother calls Teddy Teddy. Before Lenny can forget Teddy's revelations, Lenny decides to continue the hunt, lying to himself to set himself up to kill Teddy. Lenny puts a note on Teddy's photo saying Don't believe Teddy's lies, records Teddy's license plate number as John G's, and leaves himself a reminder to get a tattoo of the plate number, SG137IU. Leonard ditches Teddy by throwing Teddy's car keys into some weeds. Leonard then leaves Leonard's pickup truck at the refinery and drives away in Jimmy's Jaguar, still wearing Jimmy's clothes. After forgetting Teddy's revelations and the lies to himself, Leonard finds a tattoo parlor and has the license plate number tatooed onto Teddy's leg. Teddy sees the Jaguar parked outside and comes in, trying to move the car and get Lenny to get out of town in some new clothes. Leonard sees the note on the back of Teddy's pictures and decides to leave without Leonard. Leonard finds a note in the pocket of Jimmy's suit coat, which Leonard is wearing. The note is from a Natalie telling Jimmy to come to Ferdy's bar. Not realizing Grantz is wearing Jimmy's clothes and driving Jimmy's car, Leonard thinks the note is for Grantz and goes to meet Natalie CarrieAnne Moss. Grantz tells Natalie about Grantz's condition. Natalie believes Grantz's story after a test. Natalie takes Leonard to Natalie home and tells Leonard Leonard can stay with Natalie. Leonard recounts what Leonard remembers of the attack. Leonard says Leonard awoke to sounds, got a gun, and found Leonard's wife being strangled. Leonard shot one intruder, but a second man clubbed man with a sap and smashed man's head into a mirror. Leonard goes on to explain that the cops did not believe there was a second attacker. Leonard tells Natalie that the second attacker was too smart and left the evidence to look like there was only one intruder. Natalie tricks Leonard into going after a man named Dodd Callum Keith Rennie, who Natalie claims has been harassing Natalie for the money from Jimmy's prior drug deals. Leonard leaves to look for Dodd. Teddy is waiting for Teddy as Teddy leaves Natalie's home. Teddy tries to warn Leonard about Natalie, but after seeing the Don't believe Teddy's lies note on Teddy's picture, Leonard does not believe Teddy. Leonard does decide Leonard shouldn't stay with Natalie and follows Teddy's advice to go to the Discount Inn. Leonard goes to the Discount Inn. Though Leonard has already paid for a room, Burt Mark Boone Junior at the front desk takes advantage of Leonard's condition by renting Leonard a second room. Leonard calls an escort service. When the escort arrives, Leonard explains to escort that Leonard wants only to relive going to sleep the night of the attack. After falling asleep, the escort wakes Leonard. Leonard asks the escort to leave. Leonard then takes personal items belonging to Leonard's wife to a reservoir and burns them. In the morning, Leonard leaves the reservoir and is spotted by Dodd. Leonard escapes Dodd and goes to Dodd's motel to wait for Leonard. When Dodd returns to Leonard's motel room, Leonard beats Leonard and ties Leonard up. Leonard calls Teddy for help in dealing with Dodd. Teddy comes to Dodd's motel room. Leonard and Teddy convince Dodd to leave town. Returning the favor of getting rid of Dodd, Leonard spends the night at Natalie's. In the morning Natalie agrees to trace the license plate number tatooed on Leonard's leg. Later that day, Natalie gives Leonard the information along with directions to an abandoned place outside of town where a guy Natalie knew used to do bigger deals. Leonard takes day back to Leonard's motel. At the motel, Leonard puts the clues together and concludes that Teddy is John Edward Gammell and must be the second attacker. Leonard calls Teddy and they go to the same abandoned building where Jimmy Grantz was killed a few days earlier. Leonard shoots Teddy in the head.