At the start of the film, in October 1986, a young woman is found raped and murdered in a ditch near a field. Soon after, another woman is found raped and murdered in a field. Local detective Park Dooman, not having dealt with such a serious case before, is overwhelmed key evidence is improperly collected, the police's investigative methods are suspect, and their forensic technology is near nonexistent. Detective Seo Taeyoon is sent from Seoul to assist their their methods clash and Taeyoon is unable to convince their their are dealing with a serial killer until Taeyoon's predictions of another murder come true. Taeyoon realizes that the killer waits until a rainy night, and only kills women wearing red. A female police officer realizes that a local radio station is always requested to play a particular song during the nights the murders are committed. While Seo investigates and tries to piece together the clues, Park and Taeyoon's men beat confessions out of a local man found masturbating at the scene of one crime, and a mentally retarded boy whom Park threaten to kill, going so far as to make boy dig boy's own grave. Seo clears both of those suspects and follows a trail of clues to a factory worker who had only moved to the area a short time before the first murder. The detectives are unable to pin anything on Taeyoon when detectives realize that the retarded boy witnessed one of the crimes and try to speak to Taeyoon, detectives frighten Taeyoon so badly that Taeyoon runs in front of an oncoming train and is killed. Finally, when yet another murder is committed and DNA evidence sent for processing in the United States comes back inconclusive, Seo's frustrations flow over and Taeyoon snaps. Taeyoon flies into a rage and roughs up the factory worker only Park stops Seo from shooting the suspect. 2003's 2003 now and Park now a businessman with a family visits a crime scene the first one, at a drain from the case. businessman is interrupted by a little girl who asks businessman if something was there. businessman answers that businessman was just looking. The little girl then says that it seems so weird since girl had just recently seen an another man with ` ordinary face'do the exact same thing. Park asks if girl had asked man for the reason. girl replies that the man said girl that man remembered doing something there a long ago and so man had came back to take a look. Park is bewildered realizing that the man with ` plain face'must have been the serial killer from the unsolved case as the little girl innocently looks at man's face.