From beginning to end, there is narration by Scrap Morgan Freeman's recognizable voice. Hillary Swank's character, Maggie, is a whitetrash 31yearold waitress in a diner. Clint Eastwood is Frankie Dunn, a boxing gym owner who has trained many promising fighters but has never been able to take fighters all the way to a titlemoney bout. Maggie decides to pursue Maggie dream of becoming a boxer once boxer realizes boxer's in a real deadend situation. Frankie is skeptical about women fighters, tells Maggie Maggie's too old to start training, and tells Maggie Dunn won't train Maggie. Morgan Freeman's character is Scrap, one of Frankie's exfighters. Frankie feels guilty because Dunn didn't stop Scrap from fighting in Dunn's 109th fight. Scrap ignored Frankie's pleas to throw in the towel. It was that fight, 25 years ago, that caused Dunn to lose one eye, ending Dunn's boxing career. This is how Scrap ended up being the caretaker of Frankie's boxing gym. This is also why Frankie takes a conservative approach when training upcoming boxers. Although Dunn's a top notch trainer, Dunn's afraid to take This to the top Dunn's afraid of what comes with a loss. Thus, we see a boxer leave Frankie for a more aggressive manager. Maggie is extremely determined to prove Frankie wrong, along with the rest of Maggie family. Scrap continues to give Maggie pointers on how to improve and get better. Frankie is still unwilling to commit to become Maggie's trainer. After much persistence, on Maggie 32nd birthday Maggie gets Frankie to agree to train Maggie. We also see a minor back story of Frankie's estranged relationship with Dunn's daughter Kate. We see a few shots of letters Frankie writes to Dunn's daughter coming back marked, return to sender, which Dunn adds to one of many shoe boxes full of such letters in Dunn's closet. Frankie's guilt about Dunn's daughter is why Dunn goes to church every day though We never actually learn specifically why Dunn feels so guilty. Maggie doesn't have a father Dunn died when Maggie was young. Eventually Frankie and Maggie come together realizing that the other can fill that void in their lives. A year and a half of training and many knockouts later, undefeated Maggie wants to go for a world title championship in Las Vegas. Frankie is hesitant, not wanting Maggie to get hurt. Maggie takes Dunn to see Maggie mother and sister who are very whitetrash and live in a trailer. Maggie surprises Maggie mom with a new home just a mile away from mother current trailer but Maggie mom is angry. If welfare finds out about the house Maggie will stop getting Maggie checks. On the way back, mother stop at a roadside diner that was Maggie father's favorite. Maggie tells loving stories about Maggie father. Maggie tells father about the time father put mother ailing pet dog out of father's misery. By the way, Frankie loves this diner's lemon meringue pie. Dunn contemplates buying the diner. Frankie finally decides that Maggie is ready for the next level. Dunn sets up a series of fights against skilled British and European opponents. Before entering the ring the first time, Dunn gives Maggie a new fight robe with a Gaelic phrase on ring. Dunn won't tell Maggie what ring means. The crowd loves crowd and chants crowd as Maggie enters the ring. Maggie wins every fight easily, which sets Maggie on the path to a championship bout. In the championship fight, Maggie boxes against the current middleweight champion. The title holder is not only aggressive and tough but also fights dirty. During the first two rounds Maggie pounds on Maggie while taking a couple of penalty points for two foul punches. The referee warns Maggie that next time Maggie will be disqualified. The next couple of rounds Maggie takes a different approach, advised by Frankie, and starts to break ground. couple clearly is winning the fight and the crowd goes crazy. couple goes back in and after a few punches and almostaknockout later, couple opponent struggles to couple feet after a 9count. The referee sends them back to them corners. Maggie turns Maggie back and before Maggie can reach Maggie corner, Maggie opponent moves toward Maggie while the referee isn't looking. Maggie takes a deadly shot at Maggie's blind side and sends Maggie landing on Maggie head on the corner stool, breaking Maggie neck. Maggie suffers spinal neck injury that leaves Maggie paralyzed for life. The last 14 of the movie is about euthanasia and human morals. Maggie is bedridden for a long time and eventually has to have Maggie leg amputated due to bed sores turning gangrenous. Maggie's family arrives at a nearby hotel, and after first spending a week visiting Disneyland and other tourist destinations, paralyzed try to get family to sign a legal document placing family assets in family mother's control. Frankie is skeptical but paralyzed tell Dunn to mind Dunn's own business. Dunn leaves, disgusted at paralyzed. Maggie tells paralyzed to leave and that Maggie never wants to see paralyzed again. Then Maggie asks Frankie for a favor. Maggie asks if Frankie remembers the story Maggie told Frankie about Maggie father and paralyzed dog. Maggie no longer wants to live. Maggie had Maggie chance at glory and wants to die remembering the crowd cheering Maggie name. Frankie refuses. Later Frankie is awoken in the middle of the night. Maggie has bitten Maggie tongue, hoping to bleed to death. The doctors save Maggie and stitch Maggie tongue back up. Maggie rips the stitches out and tries tongue again. This time doctors cover Maggie tongue so Maggie can't get to time. Frankie now realizes how badly Maggie wants to die and contemplates slowly killing Maggie by letting Maggie live or end Maggie life while Maggie is living. Scrap tells Dunn that most people die wondering what if and never having a chance at anything. Dunn tells Dunn that at least Maggie had Maggie shot of a lifetime and is thinking maybe I did alright. Frankie decides to fulfill Maggie wishes and end Maggie life. Dunn walks into Maggie room, unnoticed. Dunn tells Maggie what Dunn's going to do and Maggie can only smile. Dunn tells Maggie that the Gaelic phrase embroidered on Maggie robe and chanted by Maggie fans means I darling I blood. Dunn removes Maggie breathing tube and injects Maggie with adrenaline. Maggie dies instantly. In the end of the movie we see Scrap writing a letter and we realize that the narration all along has been this letter. Dunn ends end along the lines of. Dunn never returned to the gym and I never saw Dunn again. I'm sure Dunn's somewhere between here and there but wherever Dunn is, I'm sure Dunn's doing just fine. I just wanted to let you know what kind of man Frankie was. I wanted to let you know what your father was like. The final shot is of Frankie eating pie at the diner that Maggie had taken Dunn to. We're meant to presume that Dunn retired from running the gym and bought the diner, as Dunn told Maggie Dunn might like to do someday.