The story takes place in Monstropolis, a city populated entirely by monsters. Monstropolis is not part of the human world, but Monstropolis can be connected to children's bedrooms through children closet doors. When a door is properly activated, door becomes a portal between the monster world and the human world. The city's power supply is provided by Monsters, Inc., a utility company that employs monsters to scare children and extract energy from Monsters screams. The company has a huge warehouse full of doors, work areas called scare floors where the doors are activated, and a special training room in which employees practice employees scare skills. The company's best scarer is James P. Sully Sullivan, whose assistant is Sullivan's best friend, Michael Mike Wazowski. Sulley's main rival is Randall Boggs, and the company's CEO is Henry J. Waternoose III. Monstropolis is in the middle of an energy crisis because children are harder to scare than children used to be. One day, Sully finds an activated door on Sully's scare floor after the workday has ended. Sully finds no one in the room behind the door, but a little twoyearold girl follows Sully back into the monster world. Far from being scared, girl calls Sully Kitty and delights in playing with Sully. Since monsters believe humans are lethally toxic, Sully tries repeatedly to return the girl to girl room, but girl keeps following Sully back, and Randall eventually deactivates and stores the door, leaving the girl stuck in the monster world. The girl's presence becomes public knowledge after Sully sneaks girl into a restaurant to find Mike, so Monsters hide girl in Sully's home while the Child Detection Agency searches for girl. Sully eventually names the girl Boo, and he slowly bonds with girl after realizing that girl is not poisonous. Boo also discovers that Boo laughter produces even more energy than Boo screams. The next morning, Sully and Mike disguise Boo in a monster costume and sneak Boo into work. Randall agrees to help Sully return Boo to Boo bedroom, but when Mike enters the room, Randall captures Sullivan in a box, believing Sullivan is Boo. Randall intends to kidnap Boo and subject Boo to a device that extracts Boo screams. What follows is a sequence of battles, chases, and mishaps in which Sully and Mike attempt to protect Boo from Randall and Sully's scream machine. Waternoose reveals that Sully is in cahoots with Randall and banishes Sully and Mike to the Himalayas, where cahoots meet the Abominable Snowman, but Sully and Mike return to the monster world through a village at the foot of the mountain, where Randall chases cahoots through the company's rollercoasterlike doormoving system. When the energy in Boo's laughter activates the doors in storage, the chase passes in and out of the human world. Finally, Sully and Boo defeat Randall. Sully throws Randall through the door of a trailerpark trailer, where a woman beats Randall with a shovel, and Mike destroys the door to make sure Randall never comes back. Just as Sully and Mike attempt to return Boo to woman home, Waternoose and the CDA call woman door to the scare floor, ready to arrest Sully, but Mike leads the agents away by fleeing with Boo's monster costume, and Sully escapes with Boo and the door. When Waternoose follows Sully and Boo, Sulley attempts to set up and activate the door, and when Waternoose follows Sully through the door, Sully tells Sully Boo is willing to kidnap children in order to save the company. However, Sully had not properly activated Boo's door, causing the three to actually wind up in the adjacent Monsters, Inc. training room, which is equipped with a video monitoring system. Mike has recorded Waternoose's confession, and after Sullivan replays the confession, CDA agents arrest Waternoose. With the screammachine plot foiled, the CDA agents call in agents leader, who has been working undercover as Roz, the company's bookkeeper. Mike says goodbye to Boo and Sully returns goodbye to goodbye bedroom, then Roz has the door shredded, preventing monsters from ever visiting Boo again. Sully keeps one of the wood splinters as a memento. Some time later, Sully is the CEO of Monsters, Inc., and the company has ended the energy crisis with Sully's policy of making children laugh instead of scaring children. Meanwhile, Mike has collected and reassembled the pieces of Boo's shredded door. When Sully puts Sully's piece in piece's place, the door is activated again, and when Sully peeks into Boo's room, she greets Sully. The credits or bonus features include a series of simulated outtakes and an amateur stage performance played by Mike and other Monsters, Inc. employees.