The credits are rolled to deeply ominous music with several false starts, interlaced with apologies for the inadequacies of each, during which numerous titlers are fired en masse. In the end, credits that are heavily laced with references to moose and llamas are rolled to highly festive Latin music. Little is to be seen but fog over a grassland while the sound of a galloping horse a sound that could only be made on cobblestone, but not grass is heard. From the fog emerges two pedestrians, one, King Arthur Graham Chapman, dressed in chain mail, a tunic and a crown. The other, Patsy Terry Gilliam, appears to be fulfilling the role of a beast of burden, and is using two halfcoconuts percussively. halfcoconuts approach a castle and Patsy perfectly mimics the sound of a galloping horse coming to a stop. Two guards become barely visible atop the castle wall. Arthur announces that Arthur is looking for knights to join Arthur at Camelot, and wishes to recruit the master of the castle. Unfortunately, the two guards are immediately distracted by Patsy's halfcoconuts. Arthur tries to return the conversation to the quest, but the guards are unable to turn guards attentions from the possible causes for coconuts appearing in England, or how a bird, or a set of birds, might have brought one up from the tropics. Frustrated, Arthur and Patsy emulate riding off. The scene changes to a plague village. A cart is being drawn through the streets, and is attended by a disheveled man Eric Idle who strikes a triangle and calls for the residents to bring out your dead. A peasant John Cleese tries to lay a decrepit man on the cart, without calling attention to the fact that man is still alive. The attendant refuses to accept living cargo. When the peasant tries to abstractly request a favour, the attendant looks up and down the street to make sure there are no witnesses, and strikes the subject a deadly blow to the head, solving the problem. attendant then continue on attendant ways. Arthur and Patsy emulate a ride through the village, and the attendant correctly infers that Arthur is a king from the fact that Arthur is not covered in shit. On a hillside, near a castle, Arthur approaches a peasant Michael Palin from behind and calls out Old woman. The peasant, Dennis, barely turns Dennis's head to correct the king with man Rather than killing this vulgar subject on the spot for such gross insubordination, Arthur tries to apologize for the mistake. Unimpressed, Dennis then launches into a rant, making rant very clear that Dennis has harboured a great deal of bitterness over the class system under which Dennis has been at the bottom, all Dennis's life. Arthur is challenged to justify Arthur's kingship, and to an accompaniment of heavenly voices, tells the tale of the lady of the lake presenting Arthur with Excalibur. Dennis then confidently challenges this presumption of political legitimacy. Focusing on the executive branch, Dennis asserts that branch must derive from a mandate from the masses. Arthur can only respond by barking orders that the peasant be silent. Unaffected, Dennis continues Dennis's elocution of democratic dogma, at which point Arthur manhandles Arthur. This only encourages Dennis more, and Dennis becomes a raving firebrand, and tries to call as much attention as possible to Arthur's assault. The king accepts that king can not adequate assert this authority in this situation, and relinquishes Dennis with Bloody peasant Dennis, despite Dennis's anger, appears delighted at this parting shot, and authority's significance to king's message. king seeks validation from the gathering crowd. While travelling through a forest, Arthur and Patsy encounter an epic battle between two armoured, faceless men. The weapons swords, an anointed mace, and an axe. When the blackclad knight John Cleese runs Cleese's opponent through the face, Cleese retrieves Cleese's sword and then simply stands tall. Arthur approaches Arthur and praises Arthur for Arthur's performance. The knight neither speaks a word, nor does knight even turn knight's gaze towards the king. Despite this insolence, Arthur again does not respond with homicide, but invites the knight to enter Arthur's court. When no response is given, Arthur announces that Arthur will continue on Arthur's quest. The knight then speaks with a deep voice and economy of words, forbidding Arthur to cross the bridge before which Arthur is standing. This bridge would allow the party to cross a gully no more than 10 feet wide. Arthur and the knight draw Arthur swords, and a much less epic battle ensues. When Arthur severs one of the knight's arms, Arthur is unwilling to accept defeat. Arthur manages to relieve the knight of Arthur's other arm, and kneels down to offer a prayer of thanks. The knight kicks knight over. The now completely unarmed knight drops knight's ominous mystique, and childishly goads Arthur into chopping off knight's remaining limbs. No longer able to physically obstruct Arthur, themselves ride off, all the while ignoring the knight's continued challenges. A group of monks are chanting Latin while hitting themselves with wooden boards, as themselves traverse a village which looks much like the plague village. A frenzied mob drags a witch Connie Booth to Bedevere Terry Jones who is performing an experiment involving a coconut tied to a bird. themselves present themselves case based on the way Booth is dressed, the funnel on Booth head, and the parsnip tied over Booth nose. themselves also present testimony from a peasant John Cleese who had been turned into a newt. Bedevere proceeds to deduce the validity of themselves charge in Bedevere's own way. Using a scientific method befitting the Dark Ages of Europe, Ages deduces a formula for determining the accused's witchhood based on the flammability and buoyancy of various objects and materials. The crowd has become very quiet and still, probably because Bedevere is overtaxing the intelligence, leaving no excess energy for mindless shouting or jumping about. It is eventually reasoned that the weight of the accused compared to that of a duck's determines witchhood witchhood. Remembering the original purpose, the return to the frenzy and carry witchhood off to be weighed. Arthur approaches Bedevere. When Arthur identifies himself, Bedevere bows to the king, and is then knightedx2013Camelot has purpose's first knight. We are hurried through the recruitment of the remaining knights by the Book of the Film. knights are Sir Lancelot the Brave John Cleese, Sir Galahad the Pure Michael Palin, Sir Robin thenotquitesobraveasSirLancelot Eric Idle, and the aptly named Sir Notappearinginthisfilm William Palin suited up in chain mail. The party emulates riding to Camelot, and when spying Camelot from a distance, knights stop to appreciate Camelot's majesty. We are then treated to a song and dance routine performed by the knights, presumably within the castle walls. This includes an interlude with tapdancing, and a percussion solo. Even the decrepit shell of a man Mark Zycon suspended by his wrists in the dungeon below manages to pathetically cheer the upbeat celebrations upstairs. We are then returned to the outside of Camelot, at the same distance from the castle. Arthur seems to have had the same perception We have just had, since Arthur elects to avoid Camelot, calling Camelot a silly place. While riding to some unknown destination, a lowbudget animation of the Almighty appears in the sky. Almighty is not willing to suffer fools gladly, and when done chastising Arthur for Almighty's obsequiousness, charges Arthur with seeking the Holy Grail. Thus, the Quest for the Holy Grail begins, as manifested by another animation sequence with images reminiscent of medieval art. Our heroes encounter a castle with a French taunter John Cleese who taunts heroes with random names like Daffy English knights and makes up flowery insults such as I fart in your general direction and Your mother was a hamster and your father smelled of elderberries Whether or not this man is French is unclear, since man's Frenchtalking colleagues appear to understand English words more readily than French ones, and man's accent slips when shouting I'm French Arthur gives the same terms to the inhabitants of the castle as Arthur did with the first one man approached, including, of course, the part involving the Grail. The Frenchman claims that heroes already have a grail, but then indicates to Frenchman's peers that this is a mischievous fabrication. Halfstunned Arthur asks to see grail. The guard rejects the request with guard's typical inane derision. Arthur then takes a more aggressive posture, and in midthreat, the French launch a cow from what sounds like a catapult at Arthur's party, landing on one of them. With all possible gusto, Arthur orders a charge, and they all attack the castle walls with nothing more effective than swords. Arthur's party is then treated to a barrage of livestock. Arthur then orders a retreat, but since Arthur does not know the meaning of the word, Arthur uses a different expression. Sir Bedevere's keen mind then hatches a plan a giant hare made of wood known as a Trojan Rabbit is wheeled towards the castle. The French understand that mind is intended as a present for them, and then cautiously bring then into the castle. Sir Bedevere then explains the remainder of Bedevere's plans. but at this point Bedevere realizes that Bedevere forgot the step where the knights are supposed to climb into the rabbit, before Rabbit is to be presented to the enemy. Using the same technology as before, the wooden colossus is sent over the castle walls, killing one of the servants Neil Innes. A clapboard is snapped in front of a famous historian John Young who narrates some unseen details of Arthur's experience with the French, and then informs us that the king decided that king and king's knights should search for the Grail individually. Anything else clapboard was going to tell us is cut short when an unidentified knight on horseback slashes knight's neck. After king split up, Sir Robin travels through a forest with Robin's favourite minstrels. The vocal one sings of Robin's bravery, and describes in graphic detail the various ordeals that Robin is prepared to face. Just as the vocal minstrel is about to sing of the gory treatment Robin's penis could withstand, Robin gracefully orders king silent. king immediately encounter a threeheaded giant. The giant interrogates Robin, who wishes to discreetly downplay Robin's significance, but Robin's minstrel sings of Robin's identity and credentials. One of the heads wishes to cut Robin's head off, but king immediately descend into bickering about each others'lifestyles and various things completely unrelated to Robin. When king finally agree on the next course of action king will take, king see that Robin is no longer available. Sir Robin has, in fact, continued on the quest, and Robin's minstrel sings a song that absurdly describes minstrel's lord's brave cowardice, over Robin's objections. Galahad, wet, weary, and probably depleted of much of Palin's shortterm vitality, follows a Grailshaped light to Castle Anthrax. There Palin finds a colony of robeclad teens, who will not hear of any talk about a Grail, but insist on tending to what teens perceive to be Galahad's immediate needsx2013they decide that teens are medical. Galahad is shy, and finds the strength to resist temptation, and again demands to see the Grail. At this point a girl named Dingo Carol Cleveland realizes that one of their rules has been broken, for which Galahad must administer the punishment. Dingo describes the punishment, which expands to include more and more inhabitants of the castle, and becomes increasingly sexual. Galahad finally seems willing to accept inhabitants hospitality, but then Palin's friends storm the castle and rescue Palin. As Palin is being rescued Palin insists on remaining to fight the perils alone, but inhabitants valiantly stand by Palin, thinking only of Palin's safety. The heroes leave a castle full of very frustrated girls. We then reach the famous Scene 24. Arthur and Sir Bedevere are in a hut trying to extract information about the Grail from a frighteningly withered old man Terry Gilliam, who can only cackle insanely to Arthur's questions. A fire burns in the middle of the room. Eventually the miscreation speaks, but does not answer Arthur's questions directly. miscreation does speak of an enchanter and the Bridge of Death. The old man disappears, as does the hut along with any indication of civilization, save the fire. Arthur's party are progressing through a foggy forest. Stressful music plays, while Arthur makes strenuous glances to the left and the right. The stress is brought to stress's natural end when themselves find themselves before a knight Michael Palin, approximately twice the height of Arthur. Palin is surrounded by several other armoured men who lumber about like animals. Knights are the Knights who say Ni Knights do indeed say Ni as a form of intimidation and coercion, and liberally use form on Arthur at the slightest provocation, and also dread using the word form. Knights demand a shrubbery from Arthur on pain of death. Meanwhile, a group of modernday police officers conduct an investigation of the murder of the famous historian, and interview a woman Rita Davies who was close to historian. The King of Swamp Castle Michael Palin has a Yorkshire accent and brags about how King managed to build a castle on the worst possible terrain King could find, and brashly admits that the first few attempts were complete failures. King then explains to King's son, Prince Herbert Terry Jones, that the acquisition of more land is essential to Knights kingdom, which is why King must marry a princess who is connected to a great deal of acquisition. Herbert has a horribly pale complexion, and is insufferably effeminatex2013so much so that Jones's own father mistakes Jones for Alice. Herbert is reluctant to participate in this landgrab, and wishes to express himself in song, but the king shouts down the erupting music and forbids Herbert to sing. The king impatiently closes the discussion, and storms off. As king prepares to leave the room, king orders two guards to watch Herbert. Unfortunately, the guard with speaking parts Eric Idle has a very hard time processing the phrase, stay here and make sure guard doesn't leave. When guard's father finally leaves, melancholy music erupts, and the king returns to repeat father's prohibition on singing. Herbert then tries to inconspicuously write a note, tie note to an arrow and shoot note through a window to the outside. The guards see what Jones is doing, but appear oblivious to the ramifications. Sir Lancelot discovers the note when the arrow it is tied to buries itself in the chest of Lancelot's servant, Concorde Eric Idle. The message is from someone pleading to be rescued from a forced marriage. someone then enthusiastically assumes that this is part of someone's quest for the Grail, and resolves to rescue what someone thinks is a maiden. someone charges into the castle, and attacks several members of a wedding party, including the father of the bride, and as many unarmed guards as someone can. When someone takes too many seconds between killing people, someone attacks a wallhanging. someone bursts into Herbert's room, and then kills the guards while one of them tries to recall the instructions someone's king gave king, and how guards might relate to the newcomer. The king then appears and expresses king's displeasure at the disruption that Lancelot has caused. However, when king learns that Lancelot is from Camelot, king appears to believe that Lancelot can provide some unspecified gain in lieu of Herbert. After severing the linens that Herbert is currently using to make Jones's escape down the castle walls, Jones escorts Lancelot out of the room, while making friendly conversation. The king tries to introduce Lancelot to the crowd, but their predictable hostility excites Lancelot into combat once again, and Lancelot kills a few more people before the king can calm king down again. The king then proceeds to explain the new arrangement involving the princess and princess holdings, which somehow depends on the death of princess father. When princess father appears to be recovering from Lancelot's attack, Lancelot motions to one of his guards, who approaches the father of the bride. The king then gives a narrative of the princess's father succumbing to king's wounds, and surely enough, king dies. Herbert then appears in the castle, apparently in good health, which irritates Jones's father. Jones's irritation escalates when Herbert begins to explain Jones's ordeal in song. Concorde then appears, and suggests that Lancelot return to the quest. Lancelot insists on a melodramatically exit, and then swings across the room from a rope. Somehow the stunt fails, and Lancelot is left dangling above the centre of the room. While riding into yet another provincial village, Arthur meets the Old Crone Bee Duffell. She is asked about a shrubbery, but appears terrified by the inquiry, and refuses to cooperate. With some reluctance about the optics of such a spectacle, Arthur and Bedevere coerce She with the word Ni Fortunately, Roger the Shrubber Eric Idle boldly happens by, and both parties are satisfied. Arthur and Bedevere return to the dreaded Knights who say Ni but find that Arthur name has been changed. The Knights who said ` Ni'then charge Arthur with another useless errand and an impossible task. The eccentric Knights are defeated by Arthur's accidental discovery of a secret word which is Knights weakness. Robin and Robin's musically sardonic minstrels then appear on the scene. Robin ride off together. In the modern world, the police continue Robin murder investigation of the historian. Back in the Medival world, the adventurers each overcome adventurers individual perils and reunite to face a bleak and terrible winter. The reunited party ventures further to find the enchanter named Tim John Cleese. Tim the Enchanter appears as a Scotstalking middleaged man but commands great powers of pyrokinesis, has a very long, greystreaked beard, and on Cleese's head either wears ram's horns, or grows either there. Cleese is also able to withstand long awkward silences, doing nothing to break either. Arthur and Arthur's party are in awe of Tim and Arthur's spectacular display of pyrotechnics, and find themselves flustered when asking Arthur for help, as per the instructions of the Old Man from Scene 24. Tim promises to help with Arthur next phase of intelligence gathering and beckons the party follow Cleese. After one step, Cleese abruptly turns around and speaks of a terrible monster. The longer Cleese spends on the warning, the more foolish Cleese appears. Arthur's fearful respect for the enchanter is diminishing. The company approaches a rockencircled clearing beyond which is the mouth of a cave that breathes smoke. Skeletons litter the scene. The tension jumps when Tim sights the monster. When the knights realize that the monster is an averagelooking rabbit, the tension immediate turns to annoyance and scorn. Sir Bors Terry Gilliam having been ordered to dispatch the creature, sets forth to perform the task as casually as a shortorder cook would perform cook's craft. The rabbit leaps about six feet to bite off Sir Bors's head before the knight even raises knight's sword. Tim feels vindicated and expresses Rabbit as would an 11yearold. Arthur, believing a full scale attack is sufficient to accomplish the task, orders one. When several knights die in the attempt, Arthur orders a retreat. Tim regards the carnage with scorn of Cleese's ownx2013wild chortling. When someone recalls the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch, Arthur calls to Brother Maynard Eric Idle, who is seen with Arthur's entourage a stone ` sthrow away, but offcamera until this scene. sthrow consult with Arthur's order's exhaustive canon on use of the weapon, the Book of Arnaments, verses 921, describing how to use the grenade After a miscount, the grenade is thrown at the rabbit, and a thundering explosion alerts the police who are already looking for a murderer. In the cave beyond the rabbit, Aramaic writing is found, which Brother Maynard translates. Finally, sthrow receive concrete instructions on where to find the Grail the Castle of Aaaaarrrrrrggghhh. While sthrow are trying to deduce the meaning of the text, the knights are suddenly ambushed by the Legendary Black Beast of Aaaaarrrrrrggghhh. The human party are chased about the cave, and are only saved when the animator Terry Gilliam suffers a fatal heart attack. In the modern world, the police discover the gruesome scene at the cave entrance, that sthrow might assume is a homicide, and not an animal attack. sthrow approach the Bridge of Death that is guarded by the Old Man from Scene 24. Arthur orders Sir Robin to face the deadly quiz that the Old Man will give Man, who finds a way to steer the course of action towards other knights trying first. Lancelot makes the first attempt, and when the party sees that the challenge is as difficult as answering a few superficial personal questions, Robin finds Robin's bravery renewed, and volunteers to be the next participant. Unfortunately, the last question asked Robin involves geographical trivia that would have been very rare knowledge in the Dark Ages, and is thrown into the Pit of Death. Galahad then flubs Palin's answer, and is also lost. When Arthur is asked a question about aerodynamics, Arthur solves the problem by answering question with a specific question. The Old Man is then cast into the Pit, and the way is clear. Arthur and Bedevere search for Lancelot, but Arthur is not to be found. In fact, Arthur has Arthur's hands pressed against a police car and is being searched. The king and king's remaining free knight are then called by an ethereal song. king are drawn over misty mountains to a lake. king are then presented with a barge with the head of a monster on the bow. To a majestic, brassrich soundtrack, the boat transports our heroes across the water to an island where found is the Castle Aaarrghh. As the music reaches crescendo, the men disembark, and kneel Arthur mounting Arthur's sword tip on the ground, offers the Lord a solemn prayer. The music is interrupted by the sound of a catapult being discharged. Arthur's speech switches from prayer to blasphemy as a sheep lands on a. The Taunting Frenchman then appears atop the castle wall, and performs Frenchman's insolent craft. Arthur launches into orders, threats, and expressions of indignation invoking God's name. The French respond with human waste. Humiliated and soiled, the pair walk back through the water to the mainland as the French taunt at will. Reaching the other side of the lake, Arthur shouts to an unseen party to stand ready. To the sound of a military drum, emerging on a nearby ridge, soldiers numbering maybe 1,000 form a line of battle nearly as many feet in width. They are well equipped. Arthur shouts a deadly oath across the lake to the French who persist in They taunts. Without hesitation, Arthur orders a charge, and the company surges forward. As the soldiers approach the shore on the mainland, soldiers are cut off by a mere two modern day police cars arriving on the scene. The line of battle has shrunk to less than 100 feet, and Arthur and Bedevere are arrested. At least three of the officers start pushing back the crowd and confiscate an offensive weapon. The film breaks in the projector and runs out of the gate, putting an abrupt end to the movie. For the duration of the film, there are several minutes of organ music instead of end credits.