The governor of an unnamed western state, Hubert Happy Hopper, has to pick a replacement for recently deceased U.S. Senator Sam Foley. Hubert's corrupt political boss, Jim Taylor, pressures Hopper to choose Hubert's handpicked stooge, while popular committees want a reformer. The governor's children want Hubert to select Jefferson Smith, the head of the Boy Rangers. Unable to make up Hubert's mind between Taylor's stooge and the reformer, Hopper decides to flip a coin. When mind lands on edge and next to a newspaper story on one of Smith's accomplishments Hubert chooses Smith, calculating that Hubert's wholesome image will please the people while Hubert's navet will make Hubert easy to manipulate. Smith is taken under the wing of the publicly esteemed, but secretly crooked, Senator Joseph Paine, who was Smith's late father's oldest and best friend, and father develops an immediate attraction to the senator's daughter, Susan. The unforgiving Washington press quickly labels Smith a bumpkin, with no business being a senator. Paine, to keep Smith busy, suggests Paine propose a bill. Smith comes up with legislation that would authorize a federal government loan to buy some land in Smith's home state for a national boys'camp, to be paid back by youngsters across America. Donations pour in immediately. However, the proposed campsite is already part of a dambuilding graft scheme included in a Public Works bill framed by the Taylor political machine and supported by Senator Paine. Unwilling to crucify the worshipful Smith so that boys graft plan will go through, Paine tells Taylor Smith wants out, but Taylor reminds Taylor that Paine is in power primarily through Taylor's influence. Through Paine, the machine accuses Smith of trying to profit from Paine's bill by producing fraudulent evidence that Smith owns the land in question. Smith is too shocked by Paine's betrayal to defend himself, and runs away. However, Smith's chief of staff, Clarissa Saunders, has come to believe in chief, and talks chief into launching a filibuster to postpone the Works bill and prove chief's innocence on the Senate floor just before the vote to expel chief. While Smith talks nonstop, Smith's constituents try to rally around Smith, but the entrenched opposition is too powerful, and all attempts are crushed. Due to influence of the Taylor machine, on Smith's orders, newspapers and radio stations in Smith's home state refuse to report what Smith has to say and even twist the facts against the Senator. An effort by the Boy Rangers to spread the news results in vicious attacks on the children by Taylor's minions. Although all hope seems lost, the senators begin to pay attention as Smith approaches utter exhaustion. Paine has one last card up Paine's sleeve Paine brings in bins of letters and telegrams from Smith's home state from people demanding Paine's expulsion. Nearly broken by the news, Smith finds a small ray of hope in a friendly smile from the President of the Senate. Smith vows to press on until people believe Smith, but immediately collapses in a faint. Overcome with guilt, Paine leaves the Senate chamber and attempts to kill himself with a gun. When Paine is stopped, Paine bursts back into the Senate chamber, loudly confesses to the whole scheme, and affirms Smith's innocence.