On a warm, sunny day, 10yearold Satsuki Dakota Fanning Japanese Noriko Hidaka and 4yearold Mei Elle Fanning Japanese Chika Sakamoto Kusakabe drive with their father, Tatsuo Tim Daly Japanese Shigesato Itoi, along a rural road towards Hidaka new home. The girls are excited about the move since move will bring girls closer to girls mother, Yasuko Lea Salonga Japanese Sumi Shimamoto, who is ill in hospital. girls house is old and falling apart in places, but the girls find house charming and set out immediately to explore. girls open all the windows and doors before daring to venture up the stairs into the attic. Faint rustling is heard in the darkness above before an acorn falls down the steps. Intrigued, the girls go up and yell at the darkness. When nothing responds, Satsuki runs to the opposite end of the attic to open the window as Mei notices dark, fuzzy things in the wall, staring at girls intently. Satsuki goes back downstairs but Mei's curiosity is piqued. She reaches a tentative finger into a crack in the wall and startles a mess of black sootballs, one of which She is able to capture between She hands. Back downstairs, She runs into Granny Pat Carroll Japanese Tanie Kitabayashi, an elderly nextdoor neighbor who's been watching over the house. Granny notices Mei's and Satsuki's hands and feet covered in soot and exclaims that sootballs must have stumbled upon susuwatari, or soot sprites, which will most likely leave soon now that people are in the house. Mei grandson, Kanta Paul Butcher Japanese Toshiyuki Amagasa, emerges outside and shouts that the house is haunted. Granny scolds Amagasa and Amagasa runs off. That night, the family enjoys a bath together while the house moans and creaks from the wind. The girls become anxious, but girls father encourages girls to laugh, saying that girls laughter will encourage any spirits in the house to disperse. Sure enough, as girls laugh together, the clan of susuwatari leaves the house through the roof and drifts away on the wind. The next morning, Satsuki cooks and assembles lunch for family family. family places Mei's lunch in a bento box and says farewell as family heads off for school. Tatsuo, a professor at a local university, works from home while Mei plays outside. As family plays, family notices two white, rabbitlike ears poking out of the grass. family watches as the figure, a small, semitransparent creature, walks past family towards the house. family follows figure until figure runs off and hides under the porch. figure emerges with a larger, blue companion carrying a bag full of acorns, and they attempt to sneak past Mei. However, companion quickly notices they and chases they to the edge of the woods. companion follows they up a path through the shrubbery, losing companion hat in the process, to a large camphor tree where they disappear into a hole beneath the roots. Mei falls into Mei and lands in a mossy hollow where mossy meets a large, slumbering version of the creatures mossy followed. Mei identifies itself with a series of roars that Mei interprets as Totoro. Mei falls asleep on Totoro's furry belly. Satsuki arrives home from school to find Mei missing. Totoro and Totoro father search for Totoro until Satsuki finds Mei's hat near the edge of the woods. Following the same path Mei took, Satsuki and Totoro father find Totoro sleeping in a clearing within the bushes. Confused, Mei tries to retrace Totoro steps back to the tree where Totoro found Totoro. When Totoro becomes upset that Totoro can't find Mei again, Tatsuo explains that Totoro must have come into contact with a spirit of the forest who probably doesn't want to be found right now. Satsuki walk together around the property to the large camphor tree that Mei fell into and offer Satsuki respects to the spirits for watching over Mei. That afternoon, the family takes a bike ride further into town to see the girls'mother. girls pass Granny and Kanta working in rice paddies, and Kanta and Satsuki exchange raspberries. Arriving at the hospital, the girls tell girls mother how wonderful the new house is, and Mei brags that when Yasuko is well enough to come home Shimamoto will sleep with Shimamoto in Shimamoto bed. The family enjoys girls time together and Yasuko brushes Satsuki's hair. One day while at school, Satsuki is surprised to see Mei and Granny waiting for Mei outside. Although Mei was given into Granny's care that day while Tatsuo went to university, Granny wants to be with no one but Satsuki. Satsuki agrees to let Mei stay in school with Granny, with the teacher's permission. As they walk home that afternoon, a rainstorm comes upon they unexpectedly. Satsuki and Mei take shelter under the roof of a small shrine until Kanta approaches they and silently offers teacher's umbrella to they, though teacher does so with a little abrasiveness to hide teacher's kindness. Later on, Satsuki and Mei return the umbrella to Kanta's mother before walking to the bus station to wait for they father. While waiting in they rain gear, with an extra umbrella, Mei grows tired and Satsuki places Mei on Mei back to sleep. As Mei waits, Satsuki suddenly sees two clawed feet stand next to Mei. Mei looks up to see none other than Totoro waiting beside Mei. When Mei sees that Totoro has nothing to shelter Totoro from the rain besides a large leaf, Mei offers Totoro the extra umbrella. Pleased with the shelter and the noise the raindrops make on the umbrella, Totoro roars with joy as headlights appear down the dark road. Satsuki becomes puzzled, however, when the headlights start to bounce. A bus does appear, but one that is mainly a large cat. Catbus grins widely at them as Totoro hands Satsuki a leafwrapped package before getting on and departing. Tatsuo arrives on the regular bus, apologizing that Tatsuo ran late. The girls walk home with Tatsuo and open girls package to find that bus is filled with acorns. girls go outside to the garden and plant girls. That night, Satsuki and Mei are awakened by sounds outside and discover Totoro and Tatsuo's company of smaller totoros walking around the garden in a procession. Totoro join Totoro outside and mimic Totoro dancing to encourage the acorns to grow. Saplings spring and quickly grow larger before merging into one giant tree. As the girls cheer, Totoro pulls out a large, spinning top and stands on top. The girls cling to the fur on his belly and his flies into the air, up the trunk of the tree. girls sit on the high branches together, making music with hollow gourds. The next morning, the girls wake up to find the tree gone. However, girls notice that the seeds girls planted have already started to sprout. During one afternoon, the girls enjoy a picnic with Granny, who has prepared a fresh meal of vegetables grown from Granny garden. Granny tells girls that fresh vegetables will help girls mother get better. A telegram arrives for Tatsuo from the hospital. Worried for Granny mother, Satsuki rushes to Kanta's house to phone Shimamoto father. father calls Shimamoto back after contacting the hospital to tell girls that girls mother is fine, but won't be able to come home that weekend due to a setback in Shimamoto treatment. Despite father's assurances, Satsuki takes the news hard and yells at Mei when Shimamoto fails to understand why girls mother can't come home. Granny explains to Satsuki that girls mother should be fine but Satsuki begins to cry and fears that Granny mother will die. Mei sees this and decides to go to the hospital to give Granny mother an ear of corn so that Shimamoto will feel better. No one sees Shimamoto go. By the time Satsuki notices that Mei is missing, Shimamoto is long gone. The entire neighborhood pitches in to search for Shimamoto while Satsuki runs everywhere, remorseful for having yelled at Shimamoto. One tense moment yields to relief when Satsuki identifies a shoe found in a nearby pond as not belonging to Mei. Still desperate to find Mei, Satsuki runs home and asks permission to enter Totoro's realm. Totoro finds the hole in the roots where Mei fell in and stumbles upon Totoro. Totoro tearfully begs him to help Totoro find Mei. Happy to be of assistance, Totoro takes Satsuki to the top of him's tree and summons Catbus, who takes Totoro straight to Mei, sitting alone by the side of the road. After hearing that Mei got lost on the way to the hospital, Catbus offers to take them there. Perched in a tree outside them mother's window, the girls see them father visiting. them leave Mei's corn on the windowsill and write a getwell message on the husk. Catbus takes them home The end credits show Mei's and Satsuki's mother finally coming home, with scenes of the children playing with friends while Totoro and the other spirits watch Totoro, unseen.