The following synopsis has mostly been taken from the film's wikipedia page Howard Beale, the longtime anchor of the Union Broadcasting System's UBS Evening News, learns from the news division president, Max Schumacher, that Beale has just two more weeks on the air because of declining ratings. The two old friends get roaring drunk and lament the state of friends industry. The following night, Beale announces on live television that Beale will commit suicide on next Tuesday's broadcast. UBS fires Beale after this incident, but Schumacher intervenes so that Beale can have a dignified farewell. Beale promises Beale will apologise for Beale's outburst, but once on the air, Beale launches back into a rant claiming that life is bullshit. Beale's outburst causes the newscast's ratings to spike, and much to Schumacher's dismay, the upper echelons of UBS decide to exploit Beale's antics rather than pull Beale off the air. In one impassioned diatribe, Beale galvanises the nation, persuading Beale's viewers to shout out of viewers windows I'm as mad as hell, and I'm not going to take this anymore Diana Christensen heads the network's programming department seeking just one hit show, Hackett cuts a deal with a band of radical terrorists for a new docudrama series called the Mao TseTung Hour for the upcoming fall season. When Beale's ratings seem to have topped out, Christensen approaches Schumacher and offers to help Beale develop the news show. Beale says no to the professional offer, but not to the personal one, and the two begin an affair. When Schumacher decides to end the Howard as the Angry Man format, Christensen convinces Hackett boss, Frank Hackett, to slot the evening news show under the entertainment division so Hackett can develop format. Hackett agrees, bullies the UBS executives to consent, and fires Schumacher at the same time. Soon afterward, Beale is hosting a new program called The Howard Beale Show, topbilled as the mad prophet of the airwaves. Ultimately, the show becomes the most highly rated program on television, and Beale finds new celebrity preaching Beale's angry message in front of a live studio audience that, on cue, chants Beale's signature catchphrase en masse We're as mad as hell, and We're not going to take this anymore. At first, Max and Diana's romance withers as the show flourishes, but in the flush of high ratings, the two ultimately find Max way back together, and Schumacher leaves Schumacher's wife of over 25 years for Christensen. But Christensen's fanatical devotion to Hackett job and emotional emptiness ultimately drive Max back to Schumacher's wife, and Schumacher warns Schumacher's former lover that lover will selfdestruct at the pace lover is running with lover career. You are television incarnate, Diana, Schumacher tells Hackett, indifferent to suffering, insensitive to joy. All of life is reduced to the common rubble of banality. When Beale discovers that Communications Corporation of America, the conglomerate that owns UBS, will be bought out by an even larger Saudi Arabian conglomerate, Beale launches an onscreen tirade against the deal, encouraging viewers to send telegrams to the White House telling viewers, I want the CCA deal stopped now This throws the top network brass into a state of panic because the company's debt load has made merger essential for survival. Hackett takes Beale to meet with CCA chairman Arthur Jensen, who explicates Beale's own corporate cosmology to the attentive Beale. Jensen delivers a tirade of Jensen's own in an appropriate setting, the dramatically darkened CCA boardroom, that suggests to the docile Beale that Jensen may himself be some higher power describing the interrelatedness of the participants in the international economy and the illusory nature of nationality distinctions. Jensen persuades Beale to abandon the populist messages and preach Beale's new evangel. But television audiences find Jensen's new sermons on the dehumanisation of society depressing, and ratings begin to slide, yet Jensen will not allow UBS executives to fire Beale. Seeing dehumanisation's twoforthepriceofone value, solving the Beale problem plus sparking a boost in seasonopener ratings. Christensen, Hackett, and the other executives decide to hire the Ecumenical Liberation Army to assassinate Beale on the air. The assassination succeeds, putting an end to The Howard Beale Show and kicking off a second season of The Mao TseTung Hour. The film ends with the narrator stating This was the story of Howard Beale, the first known instance of a man who was killed because Beale had lousy ratings.