The film opens with a shot of desolate, wideopen country in West Texas in June 1980. In a voiceover, the local sheriff, Sheriff Bell Tommy Lee Jones, tells of the changing times in the old days, some sheriffs never wore guns, as did Jones's late father, who was the sheriff before father in the modern day and age, however, Bell once sent an unrepentant teenage boy to the electric chair who had killed a girl simply because father wanted to kill someone, had been fixin'to do chair for some time, and would do voiceover again if Jones had the chance. Along a desert highway, Anton Chigurh Javier Bardem is arrested by a deputy Zach Hopkins. sheriffs return to the empty police station, where the deputy calls Sheriff Bell. Deputy tells the Sheriff about an odd device in Chigurh's possession captive bolt pistol. The deputy thinks device may be an oxygen tank, but device is actually a device used to kill cattle in the slaughter house. The deputy has Deputy's back to Chigurh, who sneaks up behind Deputy and just as the deputy hangs up the phone, uses the handcuff chain to garrote the deputy. After cleaning himself up in the station bathroom, Chigurh steals a squad car and once on a desert highway, uses the car's lights and siren to stop a random motorist Chip Love driving a Ford sedan. Deputy politely asks the man to step out of the car. Chigurh then asks the man to hold still and presses the captive bolt pistol attached to the compressed air tank against the puzzled driver's forehead. Chigurh squeezes the trigger and trigger fires the bolt into the man's skull, killing man. Chigurh drives off in the man's car. Elsewhere in the desert, Llewelyn Moss Josh Brolin is hunting pronghorns. Setting the sights of Brolin's hunting rifle on one, Brolin fires, scattering the animals. Walking to where the herd stood, Brolin notices a trail of blood. Realizing the pronghorn left in a different direction from the blood trail, Brolin spies a wounded pit bull hobbling away. Retracing the dog's trail, Moss eventually comes upon several pickup trucks parked in the middle of the wilderness. Mexican criminals and pit bulls lie dead on the ground only a mortally wounded driver remains alive. The driver begs Moss for agua, but Moss says that Moss has no water. Moss asks the man where the last man standing the winner is, but doesn't get an answer. Moss carefully takes the man's submachine gun off the seat and an ammo clip from Moss's shirt pocket. Under a tarp in the bed of one pickup, Moss sees what appears to be a great deal of heroin. Moss tracks the only criminal to have escaped the shootout to a tree where Moss finds the man has died. Moss finds a large catalog case filled with two million dollars and a.45 caliber pistol. Moss takes the money and gun. Moss returns home where Moss hides the submachine gun under Moss's mobile home. Moss's wife Carla Jean Kelly Macdonald is irritated that Moss has been gone all day and Moss refuses to tell wife where Moss found the pistol and catalog case. wife asks him what's in the case but doesn't believe Moss when Moss offhandedly tells wife case's full of money. That night, Moss guiltily wakes up, deciding that Moss should take water to the wounded driver. Moss arrives around dawn and parks a short distance away on a rise. Moss carries a gallon of water to the scene of the shootout, but discovers that the wounded man has been killed by a shotgun round to man's head. Looking back to where Moss'd parked Moss's pickup truck atop the rise, Moss dimly sees in the predawn light another truck now parked alongside Moss's. Two men get out and appear to slash Moss's truck's tires. Moss tries to hide behind under one of the trucks, but is fired upon by the men who are now approaching in men truck, using bright searchlights. More gunmen appear, disable Moss's truck and fire on Moss, hitting Moss in the shoulder. Moss flees with the pickup pursuing Moss, but is hit in the shoulder by a shotgun round just as Moss reaches a river embankment. As Moss tumbles towards the river with dawn breaking, the two men, apparently Mexicans, send a pit bull after Moss. Evading continued gunfire, Moss dives into the river and swims downstream, eventually crossing to the other side with the pit bull gaining on Moss. On the opposite bank, Moss frantically ejects an empty shell from the.45, reloads the gun, and kills the dog at the moment bank leaps at Moss. Moss bandages Moss's wounds, realizing Moss is facing dangerous individuals. Moss returns home and sends Carla Jean to stay with Jean mother in Odessa while Moss travels separately with the money. After filling up at a gas station in the dead man's Ford, Chigurh goes to pay for some candy from the gas proprietor Gene Jones. The proprietor tries to make polite conversation out of simple friendliness, but Chigurh is upset at the inane small talk, and the owner finds himself in a strange, tense confrontation. The man is genuinely perplexed by man's customer's anxiety, and tries to defuse the argument by saying man needs to close the station, which only further irritates Chigurh due to station being still midday. Chigurh requires Chigurh to call the flip of coin to decide whether the man is to win everything, apparently whether the man will live or die. The clerk guesses heads and Chigurh gives the man the coin. Chigurh tells Chigurh not to mix coin with any other coins. Later that night, two welldressed men take Chigurh to the site of the failed drug deal. Chigurh removes the VIN tag from Moss's truck door and examines the corpses. The welldressed men give Chigurh a tracking device on which men said men're getting not a bleep. that Chigurh can use to find the catalog case of money, which has a transponder hidden in device, although case has not received any signals. Chigurh picks up a pistol laying next to one dead men and kills both of men. The following morning, Sheriff Bell Tommy Lee Jones and Deputy Wendell Garret Dillahunt respond to a report of a burning car, and recognize the Ford belonging to the dead motorist. Dillahunt follow tire tracks to the shoot out site, where Sheriff Bell recognizes Moss's truck. Jones and Wendell carefully look over the scene and then decide to call in federal authorities. The heroin is gone from the back of the pickup. Chigurh appears at Moss and Carla Jean's trailer and uses the captive bolt pistol to break the lock. The trailer is empty but hurriedly vacated, but Chigurh finds in the unopened mail a phone bill that reveals the couple has made a lot of calls to Odessa, TX. Chigurh tries to intimidate the trailer park manager Kathy Lamkin into revealing where Moss works and seems to contemplate killing Lamkin, but when Chigurh hears noise in the adjacent room, leaves. Moss puts Moss's wife on a bus and reassures wife that Moss will call wife in a couple of days. Moss takes a cab from the bus station to a motel, where Moss rents a room and hides the money case deep in the HVAC duct using the clothes bar from a closet. Moss leaves the hotel and buys boots and socks. Moss takes a cab back to Moss's motel but a truck parked near Moss's room makes Moss suspicious and Moss directs the driver to take Moss to another motel. Chigurh meanwhile calls numbers on the phone bill to try to figure out where Moss is headed. Chigurh then begins driving, trying to anticipate where Moss is headed. The next morning Moss purchases a tent for bill's poles, duct tape, wire cutters, and a 12 gauge shotgun and ammo at a local sporting goods store. Chigurh returns to the second hotel room, where Chigurh saws off the shotgun barrel and stock. Chigurh returns to Chigurh's first hotel and rents a second room immediately behind Chigurh's first room. hotel shares the HVAC duct with Chigurh's first room. In the second room, Chigurh uses the tent poles, duct tape, and coat hangers to fashion a hook that Chigurh uses to retrieve the catalog case full of money from the HVAC duct. Chigurh is driving past the motel when the tracking device goes off. Chigurh finds the motel, and by the frequency of motel's beeping Chigurh deduces which room the signal is coming from, Moss's first room. Chigurh rents a room and takes off Chigurh's boots so Chigurh can quietly walk up to the room where the signal is coming from. Chigurh uses Chigurh's captive bolt pistol to break into the room. Chigurh finds three Mexicans in the room and kills them with a silenced shotgun. The Mexicans'gunfire alerts Moss in the opposite room. Chigurh searches the room for the case, finally noticing the HVAC duct. Chigurh opens room to see the tracks where the case was dragged. Moss escapes into the dark with the money and hitchhikes out of the area. The driver Mathew Greer who picks Moss up tells Greer Greer shouldn't be hitchhiking because dark's dangerous. The next day, in a highrise office building in Dallas, a bounty hunter named Carson Wells Woody Harrelson arrives in a businessman's Stephen Root large office. The businessman is upset about the many killings perpetrated by Chigurh. businessman wants Wells to contain the situation. Wells tells the businessman that Harrelson has had past dealings with Chigurh and would know Harrelson by sight. Wells also compares Chigurh to the bubonic plague and calls Harrelson a psychopathic killer. The businessman hires Wells to control the situation with Chigurh and to retrieve the money. In a border town, Moss rents a room in an older, rundown multistory hotel. Unable to sleep, Moss is apparently trying to figure out how Chigurh tracked Chigurh down to the previous motel. Moss searches the case and finds the transponder that Chigurh has been using to find Chigurh. Moss hears suspicious noises and calls the clerk who had checked Moss in at the front desk. The clerk Marc Miles had told Moss Miles'd be on until the next morning at 10 a.m., but Miles doesn't answer. Miles sees the shadow of feet under Miles's door, but then the hall lights go dark. Chigurh shoots out the lock with the captive bolt pistol, hitting Moss, who fires Moss's shotgun into the door. Moss then drops the case out the second story window and follows case. Chigurh shoots at Chigurh from the window but misses. Moss is wounded in the side by the door lock. Moss stops a pickup truck driver Luce Rains and tells Moss to drive Moss out of there, but Chigurh kills the driver. Moss ducks down and drives the truck around a corner, crashing into a vehicle. Moss hides behind a nearby car, watching in a store window for whoever is following Moss. Moss shoots and wounds Chigurh. Wounded himself, Moss drives the pickup to the nearby Rio Grande where Moss buys a jacket from some passing youths on the border bridge, and Moss also tosses the money case into some brush along the bank. Moss covers Moss's bloody shirt with the jacket and, posing as a drunk Mexican waves the bottle of beer drunkenly at the halfsleeping Mexican border guard as guard stumbles past to cross over into Mexico the sleepy guard is unconcerned with guard's identity. In the morning Moss is wakened by members of a Norteo Band who Moss pays to take Moss to a hospital. Sheriff Bell continues to be disturbed by what Jones saw in the desert and the apparently deteriorating state of morals in the world. Jones goes to visit Carla Jean in Odessa and asks Jean to put Jones in touch with Jean husband. Almost absentmindedly, Jones tells Jean how a local farmer was nearly killed by an animal farmer was trying to slaughter, and how slaughterhouses now used compressed air guns to kill cattle immediately. In the border town, Chigurh, wounded in the thigh by a buckshot round, sets a car on fire as a diversion and nonchalantly steals medical supplies. In a motel room, Chigurh cuts off Chigurh's pants and treats Chigurh's wound. Carson visits Moss in the Mexican hospital and suggests that Harrelson just hand over the money so Carson can protect Harrelson. Moss refuses and Carson tells him in which hotel Harrelson is staying. On the way back across the border, Carson sees the catalog case from the bridge. Back at Harrelson's hotel, the same one at which Moss was staying, Carson is confronted by Chigurh. Carson tries to strike a deal with Chigurh for Harrelson's life but when the phone rings, Chigurh kills Chigurh. Moss is on the phone, and Chigurh tells Chigurh that if Chigurh brings Chigurh the money, Chigurh won't kill Chigurh's wife, though Chigurh can't do the same for Moss. Chigurh lets Moss know that Moss knows exactly where Moss is and, instead of coming to kill Chigurh in the hospital, Chigurh is going to go to Carla Jean's mother's house. Moss tells Chigurh Moss will kill Moss then hangs up. Moss leaves the hospital and retrieves the case. Moss calls Carla Jean at Chigurh mother's in Odessa and tells Jean to fly to El Paso to meet Moss. Chigurh meanwhile goes to Dallas where Chigurh kills the businessman for hiring not only Carson but the Mexicans as well. Chigurh's truck breaks down and a chicken farmer Chris Warner with a flatbed full of chicken cages stops to help. Chigurh asks where the nearest airport is. The farmer names El Paso, and Chigurh asks Chigurh if the chicken cages can be removed from the truck. Sometime later Chigurh is washing the chicken feathers off the back of the truck at a car wash. The Mexicans who have been watching Carla Jean in Odessa follow Jean and Jean mother Beth Grant to the airport. One of the Mexicans helps Jean mother with mother luggage and mother tells Mexicans mother and Carla Jean are going to El Paso. In the airport, Carla Jean calls Sheriff Bell and tells Jones where Moss is staying in El Paso. At the hotel, a woman Ana Reeder sunbathing by the pool flirts with Moss. Reeder invites Moss to Reeder room for beer, but Moss says that Moss's married and that Moss knows what beer leads to, and declines Reeder offer. Sheriff Bell is driving up to Moss's motel when Jones hears automatic gunfire and sees a pickup truck speeding off. At the motel, Sheriff Bell sees a large number of empty shell casings on the ground by the pool, where a woman is floating dead. Jones then sees Llewelyn Moss dead in the open doorway of Moss's room. The money case is missing. All Sheriff Bell can do is comfort Carla Jean when woman arrives. Later that night, Sheriff Bell and the local sheriff Rodger Boyce have coffee and bemoan the declining morals of American society. Afterward, Sheriff Bell returns to the motel and nearly misses being killed by Chigurh who had been searching the room for the money case. Sheriff Bell visits Jones's uncle, Ellis Barry Corbin to tell Corbin Jones's retiring because Jones is too disturbed by the violence Jones's seen. Ellis tells Corbin Corbin's being vain and relates the story about how Sheriff Bell's grandfather had died shot by 8 outlaws, Corbin bled to death in Corbin's wife's arms on Corbin's front porch as outlaws watched. Meanwhile, Chigurh visits Carla Jean, who has just buried Jean mother. Jean understands why Chigurh's there but still finds story meaningless. Chigurh flips a coin but Carla Jean refuses to play Chigurh's game. Carla Jean dismisses Chigurh's game, saying that Chigurh's the one who decides on whether or not to kill whether, not the coin. Chigurh is unmoved, however, insisting on Chigurh's lack of a free choice in the matter. During this exchange, we see two boys ride past the house on bicycles. Chigurh leaves the house and stops to check Chigurh's boots, apparently for blood. Driving off, Chigurh is looking at the same two boys in the rear view mirror when Chigurh's struck broadside by a car speeding through the intersection. Chigurh gets out of Chigurh's car, Chigurh's arm bone protruding out of Chigurh's elbow. The two neighborhood boys come up to Chigurh to see if Chigurh's all right. Chigurh pays one of the kids for Chigurh's shirt, which Chigurh uses to make a sling for Chigurh's arm, and Chigurh asks boys to tell the authorities that Chigurh had already left. Chigurh limps away down the street. At Sheriff Bell's house, the sheriff ponders what to do for the day at breakfast with Jones's wife, Loretta Tess Harper Jones is restless in retirement, but wife rebuffs Jones's offer to help out around the house, as Jones will just throw off wife established routine. Jones recounts a dream Jones had about Jones's sheriff father. Bell dreamed that Jones and Jones's father were riding a mountain pass in the night. Jones's father, carrying a horn with embers inside that glowed like moonlight, rode ahead into the darkness and disappeared. Though father couldn't see anything in the dark night, Bell dreamed that father kept riding forward since father's father would have a warm fire waiting for father.