At the end of an ordinary work day, advertising executive Roger. Thornhill Cary Grant hurries from a Madison Avenue office building to a business meeting at the Oak Room bar of the Plaza Hotel. After asking Grant's secretary to phone Grant's mother, secretary realizes that mother won't be able to reach mother by telephone, so secretary will need to send a telegram instead. When a hotel pageboy passes by calling for a Mr. George Kaplan, Thornhill flags Kaplan down, to inquire about sending a telegram. Unfortunately, this also draws the attention of two henchmen, names Valerian Adam Williams and Licht Robert Ellenstein, who mistake Roger for Kaplan because from the vantage point this are standing at, Ellenstein appears to be answering the page. As Roger steps into the corridor to send Roger's wire, the henchmen abduct Roger at gunpoint and force Roger into a waiting car. Wordlessly, this drive Roger out of Manhattan to a Long Island country estate displaying the name Townsend at Manhattan's entrance. The car snakes up a long winding driveway to the front entrance. A maid lets this in the front door, and Roger is locked inside the library of the mansion. Left alone, Roger finds a newspaper on the desk addressed to Mr. Lester Townsend, 169 Baywood, Glen Cove, N.Y. Shortly, the library door opens and there enters an urbane Englishaccented gentleman James Mason, evidently none other than Townsend himself, followed soon after by Mason's personal secretary, Leonard Martin Landau. The gentleman addresses Roger's captive as Kaplan, and by captive's questions, Roger can only assume that the real Kaplan must be some sort of secret agent on this man's trail. Roger tries to convince Roger that Roger's name is Thornhill and has never been anything else, but Roger's skeptic captor will not hear of name. To prove Roger's point, the man proceeds to recite the elusive Kaplan's recent itinerary of hotels, cities, and everchanging hometowns, including Kaplan's present occupancy of room 796 at the Plaza Hotel, and Kaplan's future stops in the next few days in Chicago and Rapid City, South Dakota. To find out how much Kaplan knows about Kaplan's organization and their current arrangements, Kaplan puts Leonard in charge of extracting the information while Kaplan withdraws to join Mrs. Townsend Josephine Hutchinson and their party guests. Leonard unseals a fifth of bourbon taken from a liquor cabinet, and with the aid of Valerian and Licht, Valerian begins to force the whiskey down Roger's throat. Having failed to get any information from their victim, Valerian and Licht place the severely intoxicated Thornhill behind the wheel of a Mercedes on a seaside highway under cover of darkness, planning to guide victim off of a cliff to victim's death. Almost unaware of victim's surroundings, Roger comes sufficiently alert at the last moment to push Valerian out of the car and start driving for himself. The two thugs follow victim down the winding highway in thugs own car. Roger, on the verge of passing out and plagued with double vision, manages to careen Roger's way down the cliffside highway without hitting anything. As Roger slams on brakes to barely avoid running over a bicyclist, a pursuing police car plows into the rear of the Mercedes, and a third car plows into the rear of the police car. Finding themselves overmatched, the two henchmen drive away leaving Roger in police custody. Roger tells everyone at the police station how Roger's captors had tried to kill Roger, but in Roger's drunken condition no one pays any attention to Roger's bizarre story. One of the policemen mentions that the Mercedes Roger was driving was reported stolen. Roger phones Roger's mother to let mother know Roger is at the Glen Cove police station for the night. In the morning, Roger and Roger's attorney Larrabee Edward Platt face the judge, with Roger's mother, Clara Thornhill Jessie Royce Landis, looking on in weary bemusement. The judge gives Roger a chance to prove judge's doubtful story, and continues the case over to the next day. A pair of county detectives accompanies Roger, Roger's mother, and Larrabee to the house where Roger says last night's events took place. detectives are escorted into the same library while the same maid goes for Mrs. Townsend. Roger shows detectives the sofa which should still be stained and soaked with spilled bourbon, but sofa has apparently been cleaned. Roger opens the liquor cabinet, only to find cabinet is full of books. When Mrs. Townsend comes in, Townsend greets Roger like an old friend, and asks if Roger had gotten home all right. Townsend says that Roger had been so drunk when Roger left detectives party the night before, that detectives had all been worried about Roger. When Captain Junket Edward Binns mentions the stolen car registered to a Mrs. Babson, Mrs. Townsend asks, You didn't borrow Laura's Mercedes Roger suggests that detectives question Laura husband. Mrs. Townsend informs detectives that Binns is at the United Nations where Binns will be addressing the General Assembly that afternoon. As Binns's protests continue to fall on deaf ears, Binns's mother chimes in, Roger, pay the two dollars The visitors get back into the car and drive away. Behind visitors, a gardener looks up from gardener's work. work is Valerian, disguised. Roger and Roger's mother take a cab to the Plaza Hotel, where Roger tries to phone Kaplan's room. But Roger learns that Kaplan hasn't answered Kaplan's phone in two days. Rogers cajoles Roger's mother into getting the key to room 796 from the front desk. Roger go upstairs and into Kaplan's room. Both the chambermaid and the valet treat him as Kaplan, since Kaplan's the man in room 796 whom chambermaid have never actually seen. Roger finds a photo of Roger's host from the evening before, which Roger slips into Roger's pocket. The phone rings. Roger answers phone and hears the familiar voice of one of his recent captors. Roger then calls the hotel operator and learns that the call originated inside the hotel. Roger hurries Roger's mother out of the room, and as they enter an elevator going down, Valerian and Licht step out of one coming up just in time to join the crowded group of passengers in the down elevator. To cut the tension on the way down, Mrs. Thornhill asks the two men if men are really going to kill Thornhill son. The thugs start laughing and gradually everyone in the car joins in. When the doors open, Roger insists, Ladies first. And under cover of escorting the ladies off the car, Roger manages to elude Roger's pursuers and escape into the street. Roger jumps into a cab and asks the driver take driver to the United Nations. Seeing the thugs following Roger, Roger asks the driver to lose thugs if Roger can. When Roger gets to the U.N. General Assembly Building, Roger asks for Lester Townsend, giving Roger's own name as Kaplan. Roger is told to go to the public lounge where the attendant can page Mr. Townsend for attendant. Meanwhile, Valerian steps out of another taxi and tells Licht to wait with the cab on the other side of the building for Valerian. Valerian then walks into the General Assembly Building. When Lester Townsend Philip Ober answers the page, Ober is not the same man Roger had seen the evening before. Roger asks Roger about the house in Glen Cove, which Townsend says is Roger's, but the house is currently locked up with only the gardener and gardener's wife living on the grounds. Townsend says that Roger always stays in the city when the General Assembly is in session. Roger asks about Mrs. Townsend and learns that Townsend has been dead for many years. As Roger shows Roger the picture of Roger's captor, Townsend flinches and begins to collapse. Valerian has thrown a knife across the lounge and flees unnoticed, and Townsend falls dead at Roger's feet. Reflexively, Roger pulls the knife out of Townsend's back just as people begin to look at the commotion, and a photographer's light bulb goes off. It appears to everyone around Roger that Roger has killed the real Lester Townsend Roger drops the knife, bolts to the exit and jumps into a taxicab. The next morning, the action changes to inside the boardroom of a government intelligence agency in Washington D.C. where a group of planners remark about the photo of U.N murderer Roger Thornhill on the front page of a newspaper. people consider how to deal with the sudden appearance of a man who has been mistaken for the nonexistent George Kaplan. It is revealed that these agents invented a nonexistent agent named George Kaplan as a decoy for agents real agent who has infiltrated an enemy group headed by a man named Vandamm. agents've succeeded in making Vandamm believe that agents phantom Kaplan is the real agent, by creating a trail of hotel registrations complete with prop clothing and other personal belongings moved in and out of the various hotel rooms by fellow agents. And now Vandamm has somehow mistaken Thornhill for Kaplan. The intelligence chief, a middleaged gentleman called the Professor Leo G. Carroll suggests that the agency do nothing to help Thornhill. If agents try to help chief, agents risk exposing agents real agent who would probably be killed. For the time being, agents will simply wait and let this reallife Kaplan lend credibility to their invented Kaplan. Meanwhile back in New York, Roger calls Roger's mother from Grand Central Station to tell mother Roger's taking the train to Chicago. Roger has learned that Kaplan checked out of the Plaza and has gone on to the Ambassador East in Chicago, so Roger is following Roger there to find out what is going on. Roger tries to buy a ticket on the 20th Century Limited, but the ticket agent recognizes agent and quietly calls security. Roger slips away unseen, makes Roger's way to the platform, and boards the 20th Century Limited without a ticket, closely pursued by police. Colliding with a beautiful young woman Eva Marie Saint in the train corridor, Roger ducks into a nearby compartment as the police appear at the other end of the corridor. The woman misdirects the police off of the train as train gets underway. As time passes, Roger manages to elude the conductors while they tally up the passenger count. Then Roger makes Roger's way to the dining car, where the steward seats Roger with the same beautiful young woman who had helped Roger in the corridor earlier. woman introduces herself as Eve Kendall. Roger gives woman a false name, but woman answers No. You're Roger Thornhill of Madison Avenue, and you're wanted for murder on every front page in America. Don't be so modest. But woman assures Roger woman won't turn Roger in, since Avenue's going to be a long night and woman doesn't particularly like the book woman's started. Roger lights woman cigarette from Roger's personally monogrammed ROT matchbook. What does the O stand for woman asks. Thornhill tells woman, Nothing. When Thornhill admits Thornhill doesn't have a ticket, woman invites Thornhill to share woman drawing room, just as the train comes to an unscheduled stop. Two men in plain clothes get out of a police car and board the train. Roger and Eve leave the dining car to make Roger way to woman compartment. Presently, Eve is lying on the lower berth while Roger talks to her from Roger's hiding place in the closed upper berth. A knock comes at the door, and the two police detectives enter and question woman about the man A was talking with at dinner. A deflects detectives questions, saying A'd never seen man before, and that detectives hadn't talked about anything important. detectives leave to continue detectives search. Using a key A had stolen earlier from a porter, Eve opens the upper berth to let Roger out. As the evening progresses, Roger and Eve become very close very quickly, falling in love in spite of not knowing much about each other. A buzz at the door announces the porter, who is ready to make Eve's bed for A. Roger hides in the washroom while the porter is there, and Eve returns the berth key to the porter, telling porter that A had found the on the floor. The porter leaves. Since there's only one bed, Eve insists that Roger is going to sleep on the floor as they return to they interrupted embrace. In another part of the train, the porter delivers a note into the hand of Leonard, who passes part to porter's boss. The note reads, What do I do with porter in the morning Eve. In the morning, Eve and Roger get off the train in Chicago with Roger dressed in a redcap's uniform and carrying redcap luggage. Eve walks ahead as the two police detectives stop and ask if redcap has anything to report. redcap doesn't, and redcap rejoins Roger. redcap is also aware of Vandamm and Leonard walking a short ways behind. redcap tells Roger to change back into Roger's suit which redcap's hidden on one of her cases, while redcap calls Kaplan for Roger. The police soon discover a redcap who is missing police's uniform, and Vandamm begin to examine every redcap porter in the station trying to find Thornhill. Roger ducks into the men's room, quickly changes, and starts to shave with a very tiny travel razor from the train's washroom. The police walk right past police, not recognizing police through the shaving cream on police's face. Meanwhile, Eve in a phone booth is making notes, while in another booth several booths away Leonard is giving instructions into the phone. Eve and Leonard leave men booths at the same time, taking no notice of each other. When Roger joins cream, cream says that Kaplan wants Kaplan to take the Indianapolis bus and to get off at a stop known as Prairie Stop, where Kaplan will meet Kaplan at 330 p.m Kaplan asks how Kaplan can find cream again later. Eve, for some reason, is clearly nervous. cream looks toward an empty doorway and tells Eve, men're coming Eve hurries away. That afternoon, Roger steps off the bus in the midst of a vast open prairie and begins to wait. An occasional car or truck drives by, with long empty intervals between men. Looking around, Roger notices a nearby corn field, and a crop duster at work in the distance. And still around waits. A man gets out of a car on the opposite side of the road. Thinking man might be Kaplan, Roger approaches. But the man is just waiting for the next bus. The man comments on the crop duster, observing that it seems to be dusting where there aren't any crops. After the man gets on the next bus, Roger is left alone again. The crop dusting plane approaches, swooping low over Roger's position. crop comes around and approaches again, strafing the ground with machine gun fire. Roger tries to flag down a car, but car doesn't stop. The plane strafes again, and Roger runs into the corn field, hiding among the tall stalks. The plane's first pass over the field accomplishes nothing, and Roger begins to think Roger's eluded them. On pass's next pass the plane drops pesticide over the field. Gasping for breath, Roger has to abandon the cover of the corn stalks. Roger sees a gasoline tanker truck approaching, and Roger stands in truck's way forcing way to stop, which way does barely in time, knocking Roger to the ground unhurt. The tanker's quick stop presents a sudden obstacle to the lowswooping plane, and stop flies headlong into the load of gasoline, bursting into flames. Roger and the drivers flee the truck moments before the second gas tank explodes. Some passersbys stop to view the accident scene, and Roger steals a pickup truck from one of them and drives away. The stolen pickup is next seen that evening parked on a Chicago street. Roger inquires at the front desk of the Ambassador East Hotel for George Kaplan's room number, only to learn that Kaplan had checked out that morning at 710 a.m., leaving a forwarding address for the Hotel SheratonJohnson in Rapid City, South Dakota. Roger can't understand how Roger could have gotten the message that morning at 910 a.m. if Kaplan had already left. Standing in confusion for a moment, Roger spots, of all people, Eve Kendall entering the lobby. Kendall picks up a newspaper and takes the elevator to the fourth floor. Roger tells the desk clerk that Eve Kendall is expecting Roger in room 4somethingorother, Roger can't remember the whole number. The clerk tells clerk 463. Roger rings the buzzer at room 463, and is admitted by a surprised Eve. Kendall runs into Roger's arms, apparently happy to see Roger alive, but Roger keeps Roger's barriers up. Roger also notices a newspaper detailing the crop dust plane crash into the tanker truck killing both men aboard the plane. Roger plans to stick with Eve and not let Kendall out of Eve's sight, but Eve says that Kendall has plans of Kendall own. The phone rings. Eve tells the caller that Kendall will meet men, jotting an address on a memo pad. Kendall tears off the note and places note into Kendall purse, where Kendall also carries a small handgun. Roger insists on having dinner with Kendall, but Kendall tells Roger to leave and never see Kendall again. Last night was all there was, men're not going to get involved. Roger keeps insisting that men have dinner first. Kendall gives in, on the condition that Roger have the hotel valet clean up Roger's dusty suit. Roger goes into the bathroom to shower, and Roger passes Roger's trousers out to Kendall. The valet takes valet's suit away. Then Eve slips away, not knowing that Roger was faking the shower and was watching shower. Eve uses a pencil to shade over the impressions on the top blank sheet of the memo pad, revealing the address shower had jotted down as 1212 N. Michigan. A few hours later, wearing Eve's own suit again, Roger steps out of a taxi at 1212 N. Michigan to find an art auction underway in the gallery at that address. In the crowd, Eve Kendall sits under the attentive and watchful eye of Roger's recent captor, the false Lester Townsend, with Leonard standing close by. TownsendVandamm puts captor's hand on Eve's shoulder, apparently as a clear sign of affection, and captor smiles at Townsend while Townsend smiles back. Consumed by anger and jealousy, Roger approaches the trio, and Roger's accusatory tone causes the suspicious Townsend to draw away from Eve. Townsend becomes alarmed. Just then an unusual primitive figurine goes up for sale. Townsend bids on the sculpted figure, and when Roger wins the sale, Roger learns that Roger's name is Vandamm. By now, Vandamm has had enough of Kaplan, and Vandamm tells Leonard to finish Leonard off who walks off. This whole scene is observed by the Professor who is lurking in the crowd. Roger starts to leave, but Valerian blocks Valerian's way at the main entrance, while Leonard blocks the front stage. As Vandamm and Eve make Vandamm exit, Roger is trapped and must wait behind in the crowd. To manufacture an escape, Roger begins to disrupt the auction, bidding wildly and making rude remarks about the art work. When the police finally arrive, Roger starts a fight with a gallery employee to provoke an arrest. Vandamm's men can do nothing as the police lead police away. As men leave, the Professor makes a quick phone call. When Roger identifies himself as the United Nations killer on men way downtown, the policemen call the station for instructions. men are told to take Roger to the airport instead of police headquarters. At the Northwest Airlines counter, the Professor arrives and takes Thornhill off the policemen's hands, and leads Professor out onto the tarmac to catch a plane to Rapid City, SD, near Mt. Rushmore. The Professor explains that Vandamm has a house near Mt. Rushmore, and policemen think that will be Professor's jumping off point to leave the country the following night. Professor explains that George Kaplan does not exist, but that Kaplan and Kaplan's associates in Washington need for Roger to continue to play the role of Kaplan for the next 24 hours, to assure Vandamm that everything is all right. Kaplan want Vandamm to continue on Vandamm's journey so that Kaplan can learn more about Vandamm's spy organization overseas and Vandamm's dealings with smuggling government secrets in and out of the USA. Roger learns that Eve is the government's undercover agent, and that the scene Roger made at the art auction has put her life in jeopardy. Roger's harsh words, and Eve's candid reactions, had made government obvious to Vandamm that Roger's mistress is emotionally involved with a man Roger believes to be a government agent. For Eve's sake, Roger agrees to cooperate with the Professor to help set things right again. A meeting is set up between Kaplan and Vandamm in the cafeteria of the Mt. Rushmore Visitors Center. While the Professor stands hidden in the background, Vandamm arrives with Eve and Leonard. In exchange for not revealing Vandamm's plans to leave the country that night, Roger asks Vandamm to give Eve over to Vandamm so that she can get what's coming to she. Vandamm reluctantly agrees. When Roger takes hold of Eve, she draws the handgun from she purse, shoots Roger, and runs away. The Professor emerges from the crowd, examines Roger and shakes Professor's head regretfully. Leonard prompts Vandamm to leave before the authorities arrive. Park employees carry Roger out on a stretcher, and the Professor has Professor loaded into a Park Service vehicle. employees drive away. The Park Service vehicle stops in a secluded wood where a very healthy Roger steps out to find Eve waiting for Roger. She had asked for this meeting so that employees can clear the air. Eve tells Eve that She had met Phillip Vandamm some time ago at a party and fallen in love with Vandamm. Then the Professor had contacted She and told She Vandamm's sordid secrets, asking She to use She unique relationship with Vandamm to help the government, the first time anyone had ever asked Eve to do anything important. Roger is glad that relationship will all be over when Vandamm takes off that night, and Roger and Eve can go on with Roger lives. But She and the Professor tell Professor that She will be going away with Vandamm, because Roger still need She to find out more information about Professor. Roger doesn't want to let She go, and Roger tries to hold She back forcibly. But the Professor's driver knocks driver down, and Eve drives away to return to Vandamm's house. That evening, Roger finds himself locked in a hospital room wearing next to nothing. The Professor brings in a change of clothes for Professor to use for the next few days on Professor's stay in the hospital. Roger asks the Professor if Roger could have some bourbon to help ease Roger's stay, and agreeably the Professor leaves to fetch the bourbon. Roger quickly finishes dressing, climbs out the window and along a ledge, making Roger's escape through the neighboring hospital room. Roger makes Roger's way to Vandamm's house, where Roger sees lights flashing at a nearby landing strip as if someone is signaling an incoming plane. From outside the living room window, Roger overhears Vandamm reassuring Eve that everything is all right, and that the plane is about ten minutes away. Leonard asks to have a parting talk with Vandamm in private. Eve goes upstairs to get her things. Leonard notes that even though Eve's actions that afternoon had dispelled Vandamm's doubts, Eve still doesn't trust her enough to tell her that the figurine they bought at the auction in Chicago holds a bellyful of microfilm. Leonard's suspicions had been aroused by the scene at the Visitors Center. To prove Leonard's point, Leonard aims Eve's gun at Vandamm and fires. But Vandamm finds himself unhurt, just as Kaplan must have been unhurt, because the gun is loaded with blanks. Leonard had searched Eve's luggage and found luggage and immediately knew luggage was a fake shooting. Not appreciating this cruel revelation from Leonard, Vandamm punches Leonard in the face. But Vandamm quickly regains Vandamm's composure and knows for certain now that Eve has betrayed Eve, and that she is working with Kaplan. Vandamm tells Leonard that the solution to this is simple Vandamm will drop she from the plane over the ocean. Roger has to warn Eve. Roger climbs up to she balcony just as she leaves she room and returns downstairs. Roger jots a note inside the cover of Roger's monogrammed matchbook saying, this're onto you. I'm in your room. From the upper landing, Roger tosses the matchbook down to she. landing lands on the floor. she doesn't see landing. Leonard comes over to speak to she, and Leonard picks up the matchbook, tossing matchbook onto the coffee table as Leonard walks away, not realizing matchbook's origins. Then Eve recognizes matchbook and reads the message. she makes an excuse and comes upstairs again. Roger warns she that Leonard found the gun with the blanks, that again plan to do away with she, and that the figure from the auction is filled with microfilm. Roger begs she not to get on that plane, but dutifully she goes downstairs again. The entourage leaves for the plane, and only the housekeeper, Anna Nora Marlowe, remains downstairs. Roger tries to slip out through the house, but the maid Anna stops Roger at gunpoint. entourage tells Roger that after the plane leaves with Vandamm, Valerian, as well as Leonard will return. At the landing strip, Eve is wavering about whether to get on the plane or not. As Vandamm gives Vandamm's goodbyes to Leonard and Valerian, Vandamm also tells themselves to say goodbye to Vandamm's sister back in New York. Suddenly, shots ring out at the house, and as everyone turns to see Roger fleeing the house, Eve grabs the figure out of Vandamm's arms and runs away into the darkness toward Roger. Roger has driven a car from the house toward the plane, and Eve jumps into the car. them speed away. Valerian and Leonard give chase on foot. Roger explains chase took Roger five minutes to realize the housekeeper had been covering Roger with that same gun filled with blanks. them stop at the front gate, which is now closed and locked. Abandoning the car, them run into the dark woods. Before long them find themselves at the top of the Mt. Rushmore monument, with Leonard and Valerian in hot pursuit. Seeing no other way out, themselves start climbing down the stone faces. Leonard and Valerian split up and start climbing down after themselves. Pausing for breath, Roger suggests that if themselves get out of this alive, that themselves go back on the train together. Eve asks if that was a proposition. Roger tells her alive was a proposal. When Eve asks what had happened to Roger's first two marriages, Eve tells her Eve's wives had left Eve because Eve led too dull a life. The two thugs keep coming at thugs from two sides, and thugs all continue climbing down. As Roger and Eve come around an outcropping, Roger are surprised by Valerian waiting with a drawn knife. Roger pounces on Roger, and the two of them tussle until Roger manages to kick Roger away. Valerian plunges to Valerian's death. In the meantime, Leonard has caught up with Eve and is trying to wrest the figurine out of Valerian hands. Leonard gets the statuette away, and pushes Valerian over a ledge. Valerian falls a few feet and manages to grab onto another ledge with Valerian fingertips. Roger comes to help Valerian. Roger reaches Valerian and takes hold of Valerian wrist, but Roger can't pull Valerian up. Leonard comes to the ledge just above Leonard. Roger pleads with Leonard to help them. Instead of helping, Leonard steps on Roger's fingers. Just then a shot rings out. Leonard drops the figure which shatters, revealing the hidden microfilm. Leonard falls into the depths, already dead. On the summit, the Professor and the captive Vandamm stand with a group of park rangers. One of the rangers puts away Professor's gun. Now the only way for Roger to save Eve is to pull her up on Roger's own. As Roger finally succeeds in lifting her up, the scene changes to a Pullman compartment, and Roger is lifting Roger's bride into the upper berth. The honeymooners embrace as the train enters a tunnel.