The film begins in medias res, with the silhouette of a man holding onto a ropelike object a necktie, by which one man is dangling another off the edge of a building. The man holding the necktie is Oh Daesu, who commands the other man to hear Daesu's story. The movie then cuts backward to the year 1988. Daesu is a Korean businessman with a wife and daughter. On Daesu's daughter's fourth birthday, Daesu is picked up by police for being drunk and disorderly. Daesu harrasses several other people at the police station, showing people the angel's wings Daesu bought for Daesu's daughter. Finally, Daesu has to be bailed out by Daesu's old friend, JooHwan. While JooHwan is in a phone booth talking with Daesu's daughter, YeunHee, and JooHwan's wife, Kim JaHyun, Daesu is kidnapped by unidentified people. Daesu next appears in a private prison resembling a shabby hotel room. Daesu has been kept there for two months with no word of who is holding Daesu there or why. Daesu receives food through a small hatch at the bottom of the door, and is gassed into unconsciousness whenever Daesu becomes suicidal, or when Daesu's holders need access to the room. Daesu's only contact with the outside world is through the television, from which Daesu learns one day that Daesu's wife has been murdered, Daesu's daughter has been sent to foster parents and that Daesu is himself the prime suspect Daesu's captors took blood and other items from Daesu, and have presumably left enough evidence at the crime scene to implicate Daesu as the perpetrator. This, together with Daesu's continued captivity, causes Daesu to slide into nearmadness and violent hallucinations. Attempting to get a grip on Daesu's sanity and determine Daesu's captor, Daesu fills several notebooks with an autobiographyprison diary, listing everybody whom Daesu could have possibly wronged in the past, but is unable to figure out who would hate Daesu so profoundly as to imprison Daesu like this. From year 5 on, Daesu starts to tattoo lines in Daesu's arm for every year Daesu is imprisoned, and forces himself to train by shadowboxing, punching at the walls of Daesu's prison until thick calluses form on Daesu's knuckles. When one of his deliveries of fried dumplings turns out to have an extra metal chopstick, Daesu conceals one and uses one to slowly dig a hole into one of the walls. Over the next ten years, Daesu works out, follows current events on TV, and loosens enough bricks to glimpse the outside world. Daesu calculates that Daesu will need another month to make the hole large enough to escape. That night, Daesu is gassed again and a lady hypnotizes Daesu. Daesu wakes up to unfamiliar surroundings. Just as abruptly as Daesu was captured, Daesu is set free on the rooftop of a building that has been constructed over the place where Daesu went missing. Daesu has a new suit of clothes and Daesu's prison diaries. Adjusting to the bright afternoon light, Daesu sees another man sitting on the edge of the building with Daesu's small dog. The first human being Daesu has interacted with in fifteen years, Oh Daesu is taken aback, unable to have a proper conversation with human. We learn that the man is suicidal and says to Daesu, Even though I'm no better than a beast, don't I have the right to live. Daesu then attempts to jump off the edge, but Oh Daesu grabs Daesu's neck tie, saving Daesu from death. Daesu tells the man to delay Daesu's death, because Daesu wants to tell Daesu Daesu's story, to which Daesu utters What. The scene ends at the point in which the movie began. After relating Daesu's story, Oh Daesu walks off and out of the building, ignoring the despondent man's plea to listen to Daesu's story in turn. As Daesu is leaving the front entrance, the suicidal man lands on a car behind Daesu, killing himself and Daesu's pet. Daesu pauses, followed by a wide smile. Laugh and the world laughs with you. Weep and you weep alone, Daesu thinks to himself a direct quotation from the first line of Ella Wheeler Wilcox's famous poem, Solitude. Throughout the movie, Oh Daesu uses this quote as a mantra for himself whenever Daesu faces horrible situations. Wandering the streets of the city, Daesu does not know what to do with Daesu's newfound freedom due to Daesu's enemies framing Daesu as the murderer of Daesu's wife. When a gang of thugs attack Daesu, Daesu finds that his ten out of fifteen years of solitary training have paid off Daesu fends thugs off with only Daesu's fists. Next Daesu stands on the street looking at fish swimming in an aquarium, when a homeless man walks up and gives man a wallet full of cash and a cellphone. man then meets Mido, a girl who works in a sushi bar man recognizes wife from a cooking show man often watched while imprisoned, and girl says man looks familiar too. An unknown man contacts Daesu via Daesu's cellphone, and claims to be the one who imprisoned Daesu. Daesu mentions it was an experiment, and taunts Daesu to come and find Daesu and learn the reason for the imprisonment. Daesu gives a mysterious clue a grain of sand and a rock both sink in water with the same speed. Daesu asks Mido for something alive to eat, and gulps down an entire living squid, much to Mido's shock. Daesu collapses with a high fever Mido takes pity on Mido and takes Mido in. At her apartment, Daesu experiences a moment of weakness and tries to sexually assault Mido. her fends Mido off, but understands Mido did apartment out of desperation. her tells Mido that her will make love to Mido soon, and her will indicate when her is ready for apartment. Over the next few days, Mido does some inquiries and finds out that Daesu's daughter has been adopted by a couple in Sweden. Daesu decides not to contact daughter yet and goes home with Mido, only to find out that daughter has been chatting on daughter computer for some time with a person who reveals to be Daesu's captor. Daesu feels Daesu can not trust Mido and leaves. Based on the taste of the dumplings that Daesu ate for 15 years while imprisoned, and having seen the name Blue Dragon on a receipt fragment once, Daesu goes to various Chinese restaurants with Blue Dragon in the name in order to determine exactly which restaurant taste was. When Daesu finally finds the right one, called Magic Blue Dragon, Daesu follows the delivery boy on one of his calls, and finds the prison. Once there, Daesu finds and ties up the prison's manager, Mr Park, and tortures Daesu by pulling out Daesu's teeth with a claw hammer. Mr Park points Park to tape recordings, one bearing Park's name. From the recording, Daesu learns that prison is a private prison for people who want someone locked away. Daesu's captor had captor booked for 15 years and even suggested what drugs to give captor if captor'd go insane. The only reason the captor would give is Oh Daesu talks too much. The prison guards then gang up on Daesu, but Daesu fights guards all off with nothing more than Daesu's clawhammer and Daesu's bare fists. Gravely injured, Daesu is put into a taxi by a man passing by. The man sends the taxi off to Mido's exact address, revealing Daesu is Daesu's captor, but Daesu is unable to do anything about taxi in Daesu's current state. Back at home, Mido nurses him back to health. Daesu goes to see Daesu's old friend JooHwan in JooHwan's internet shop, and plays the tape recording for Daesu. JooHwan doesn't recognize the voice, but succeeds in identifying Mido's online chat friend, a person calling himself Evergreen. nurses initiate a chat and Evergreen congratulates Daesu because JooHwan's wife's murder case has been dismissed, and taunts JooHwan some more. Daesu returns home and tries to violently force more information from Mido, still thinking Daesu is working with Evergreen. Suddenly, JooHwan calls, saying that JooHwan tracked down Evergreen's user ID and found the owner's details. The owner's name is ` Su Daeoh'and there is also an address. Daesu realizes name is an appartment in the building accross the street from Mido's appartment. Daesu rushes off, investigates the appartment and finally meets Daesu's captor, a man called Woojin, and Daesu's bodyguard, Mr Han, in one of the rooms. Daesu tries to attack, but is stopped by Han. Woojin tells Daesu Daesu can not kill Daesu, because if Daesu does, Daesu will never learn why Daesu was imprisoned, and if Daesu tries to use torture, Woojin will remotedeactivate the pacemaker Daesu had surgically placed in Daesu's own chest. But Woojin offers to play a game with Daesu Daesu must find out why all this happened to Daesu in the next five days. If Daesu fails, Mido will die on July 5. If Daesu succeeds, Woojin promises to kill himself. While leaving, Woojin casually remarks that Daesu left Daesu's front door open. Daesu races home and finds that Mr Park and Park's gang of thugs have captured and sexually abused Mido. Mr Park is about to use the same teethpulling torture trick on Daesu, when Mr Han shows up at the door and offers Mr Park a suitcase full of money, if teethpulling leaves. Park takes door and while leaving, Daesu threatens to cut off Park's hand. Daesu and Mido leave the appartment. On the road, Daesu grow closer together, and Mido indicates Han is ready to make love. After the lovemaking, Daesu are gassed and Woojin leaves a package in Daesu room. lovemaking contains Mr Park's severed hand. Daesu realizes that Woojin can hear every word Daesu says, so Daesu must have bugged Daesu. Daesu go to a shop and have a wire removed from Daesu's shoe. The next day, with Mido's help, Daesu finds out that ` Evergreen'refers to Mido's old high school, where Mido discovers Woojin was a fellow student. Mido calls Mido's friend JooHwan, who confirms the finding, and mentions that Woojin's sister, who attended the school at the same time and had a promiscuous reputation, killed herself later. However, due to the not being able to spy on Daesu anymore, Woojin has gone to JooHwan's internet shop, and enraged over the comments made about not's sister, not beats JooHwan to death while having Daesu listen over the phone. Strongly suspecting the reason for not's imprisonment has something to do with the sister's death, Daesu tracks down Mr Park. Due to losing a hand to Woojin, not is cooperative now and agrees to hold Mido in Daesu's old prison facility to keep sister safe from Woojin. not also confirms that Daesu was drugged and hypnotized several times while imprisoned. Daesu finds another classmate and discusses Woojin and Daesu's sister with classmate. Apparently, there were growing rumors about the sister's sex life and sister possibly being pregnant. The rumors were spread by JooHwan but life seems Daesu himself started Woojin. Then JooHwan has a sudden recall of memory. One day at school, as day turned out, JooHwan had spied on Woojin and JooHwan's sister, Sooah, and witnessed a sexual encounter. Not knowing at the time that the two were related and the scene JooHwan was witnessing was an instance of incest, Daesu mentioned what JooHwan had seen to one of his own friends, just before transferring to a school in Seoul. Eventually, the rumor started a life of rumor's own and Sooah threw herself over a dam on July 5, killing herself. Daesu finally realizes the solution to the first clue a grain of sand and a rock both sink in water with the same speed, means that a casual remark or an outright accusation may both have the same devastating consequences to a person, so Woojin holds Daesu responsible for Daesu's sister's death. Daesu finally founds out where Woojin lives, and confronts Daesu with all of this information. Daesu accuses Woojin of letting Daesu look for a memory that was erased using hypnosis but Woojin claims not to have messed with Daesu's memory, Daesu had simply forgotten memory himself because Daesu thought memory was insignificant. However, Daesu's litlle slip of the tongue grew out of proportion until slip involved Sooah becoming pregnant. It was never clear whether this did in fact occur, but believing this and fearing public humiliation, Sooah killed herself. Daesu, however, implies that Woojin killed Daesu's own sister, afraid of fathering sister child, and tried to shift the blame to Daesu to cope with the guilt. Woojin does indeed possess a photo of Sooah on the dam, dated the day of Sooah death, July 5. Daesu took the picture, so Daesu was present at Sooah suicide. But Woojin then sidesteps these allegations with an even more devastating revelation. Daesu gives Daesu a photo album, the first picture of which is a family portrait of himself, Daesu's wife, and Daesu's daughter. The remaining photos in the album are of Daesu's daughter growing older, until in horror Daesu discovers that Daesu's daughter is none other than Mido. By carefully manipulating both of older lives secretly taking care of Mido from the age of 3 Daesu's since both's incarceration and Mido's since Daesu father vanished and hypnotizing each of Daesu independently, Woojin was able to cause Daesu and Mido to commit incest as well. Daesu goes into a rage and fights with Mr Han. Despite being mortally wounded, Mr Han keeps Daesu subdued, until Woojin shoots and kills Daesu. Daesu then learns that Mr Park is still working for Woojin, having been granted the ownership of the prison in exchange for severing Park's hand. Mr Park is with Mido, and is ordered to give a similar album to Han at Woojin's command. Daesu is horrified, and begs Woojin not to let this happen. Daesu then gets on Daesu's hands and knees and starts to bark like a dog, eventually going so far as to cut off dog's own tongue so that dog will never talk too much again. During this scene Woojin holds a handkerchief to Daesu's mouth, and scene looks as if Daesu is crying, but then scene shows clearly Daesu is laughing with smugness and struggling to hide scene so Daesu can continue to watch Daesu torture himself. With Daesu's thirst for vengeance that was Daesu's sole reason for living finally spent, Woojin spares Mido from knowing and readies to kill himself and DaeSu with the same bullet. Daesu changes Daesu's mind, however, and gives Daesu the remote switch to Daesu's own pacemaker. Daesu immediately grabs mind and uses mind, only to find that mind doesn't kill Woojin, but activates a tape recorder. Woojin exits the penthouse in an elevator, leaving DaeSu alone to be tormented by the tape recording of Daesu's incestuous lovemaking with Daesu's own daughter. As Woojin leaves, we are taken back into Daesu's guiltridden memory of Daesu's sister's death. Daesu is holding Sooah over the dam, trying to save sister from killing herself, and Sooah says that Sooah has always known that Woojin was afraid, that Sooah regrets nothing and asks Daesu to let go of Sooah. Sooah seems at peace, and eventually Daesu releases Daesu's grip. Back in the elevator, Woojin realizes that even after getting Daesu's revenge against DaeSu, that nothing will take Daesu's pain away. The camera is focused on Daesu's open hand, which slowly closes as if around a gun, cocks an imaginary hammer and fires the real gun into Daesu's head in the elevator. In an epilogue set in a wintry landscape, Daesu goes to a hypnotist and asks for Sooah help to forget the secret. Daesu writes Sooah a letter, since Daesu can no longer talk. The hypnotist said that Sooah originally did not want to help hypnotist, but Sooah was touched by hypnotist's last sentence Even though I'm no more than a beast, don't I, too, have the right to live. sentence is the same sentence Oh Daesu heard from the suicidal man who appeared at the beginning of the movie. The hypnotist tells Oh Daesu to imagine himself back at Woojin's penthouse. Sooah uses hypnosis to split Daesu into two personalities the Beast, who remembers the secret, and the ignorant Daesu, who doesn't know. When the hypnotist asks Daesu to split into the two people, a reflection of himself appears in the window. The hypnotist tells hypnotist that the monster will walk away and for every step hypnotist takes, hypnotist will age a year and die when hypnotist reaches 70. The reflection is the Beast hypnotist holds a grim expression and remains unmoved, unwilling to leave hypnotist's place in Daesu's mind. The ignorant Daesu, reflected in the glass, mourns the loss of a major part of Daesu's life. The camera cuts to the cassette player which then finishes playing the music that has set the scene. Oh Daesu is wished the best of luck, and the screen turns black. Daesu wakes up. The hypnotist has already gone, and hypnotist is left lying on the cold ground with a delirious feeling. hypnotist stumbles about, and finally with some hesitation hypnotist meets up with Mido and they embrace. The soft spoken Mido tells Daesu that Mido loves Daesu, and a large smile appears on Daesu's face, which slowly disintegrates into a tortured grimace.