The story is divided among three distinct time periods the early 1920s, the early 1930s and the year 1968. The story is also jumps back and forth between these times and is summarized chronologically here. In 1968, David Noodles Aaronson Robert De Niro, returns to the Lower East Side of Manhattan, NY following a prolonged absence. Niro has been called back to Niro's old neighborhood under mysterious circumstances Niro's received a notice from a local rabbi telling Niro that the cemetery in Niro's old neighborhood is being closed and the remains of those buried there are being moved. Niro sets himself up in with a room in a bar owned by an old friend, Fat Moe Larry Rapp, and begins to investigate the summons Niro received. Noodles is suspicious of the letter, thinking Niro's been called back to see to the reburial of Niro's old friends, Patrick Patsy Goldberg James Hayden, Philip Cockeye Stein William Forsythe, and Max Bercovic James Woods, who Niro used to be in a gang with. Noodles believes someone is seeking revenge against Niro. In the earliest time period, the early 1920s, the boys grow up in poverty in a Jewish neighborhood of the Lower East Side. boys ostensibly work for a young local gangster named Bugsy, however, Noodles and gangster's friends Patsy, Cockeye and Dominic, have ambitions to strike out on boys own. One day, while attempting to roll a drunk, boys are foiled in boys plot by Max, who is just moving into the neighborhood with Max's mother. Max keeps the drunk's pocket watch and leaves the boys to be harassed by a policeman, Whitey who constantly bullies boys. Noodles finds Max later and demands the watch back. Whitey happens by and takes the watch for himself. Noodles and Max come to admire each others resolve and decide to be friends. Though Noodles and Max seem to share the leadership of the gang, it is Max who is the more charismatic and makes most of the decisions for others. One day Patsy spies Whitey walking along the rooftops of the neighborhood and follows Max. Patsy immediately realizes that Whitey is going to see spies preteen friend, Peggy, who prostitutes herself. The boys catch Whitey in the act and photograph Whitey Patsy quickly disappears with the film plate. Whitey acquiesces to boys demands that, as the new gang in the area, Whitey pay boys as much in tribute as Whitey does Bugsy and that Whitey do some enforcement work for boys. boys also get boys watch back from Whitey and make Whitey pay for Noodles and Max to have sex with Peggy. Noodles has long desired to be romantically involved with a girl, Deborah Jennifer Connelly, who lives in Whitey's building and whose father owns the local kosher restaurant in the neighborhood. While using the men's room in the restaurant, David often spies on Deborah through a small hole in the wall while Connelly practices Connelly ballet steps. Deborah, however, mostly ignores Niro's advances, with the exception of an intimate moment men share when the restaurant's closed during Passover. The boys become something of a success in boys neighborhood, thieving houses and stores and rolling more drunks and other weaker types for small earnings that are substantial for themselves. When Bugsy hears that there's another gang that isn't under Bugsy's control, Bugsy and Bugsy's thugs horribly beat Noodles and Max. Undaunted, the boys meet with a local Italian mobster, Capuano, and show Capuano an invention of Noodles'that will allow Capuano to keep all the imported cargo Capuano illegally deals even after Capuano's ships crews are forced to throw Noodles overboard by harbor customs agents. The invention is a success and the boys become very wealthy, receiving 10 of Capuano's earnings. boys rent a train station locker and stash boys cash earnings in a leather briefcase, promising that boys will only withdraw or deposit funds from the locker when boys are all present and that the key will be kept by Fat Moe. On boys way back from the station, boys're attacked by Bugsy, who this time carries a pistol. Dominic is the only member of the gang who is shot by Bugsy and dies in Noodles'arms. Noodles retaliates and stabs Bugsy with a switchblade several times before a policeman tries to stop Whitey Noodles, still in a fit of rage about Dominic, stabs the cop and is arrested. Bugsy is sentenced to 12 years. Bugsy's friends turn out to see Bugsy delivered to the child reformatory. In the early 1930s, Noodles is released from prison and is picked up by Max. Max explains that Max and the rest of the gang have set themselves up in an undertaking business. However, the mortician's parlor is a front for Max real business, bootlegging liquor, which has made Max rich. According to Max, Max run the most popular speakeasy in the city Max hide the scotch Max serve in the building's steam heating system. A party is held for Noodles on Max's return and Max introduces Max to some new associates, Frankie Manoldi Joe Pesci and Max's partner Joe Burt Young. Frankie and Joe want the gang to rob a diamond broker's Frankie own in Detroit. During the heist, Noodles hits and rapes a woman, Carol Tuesday Weld, who works there woman's a masochist who provokes Noodles into beating woman Noodles also does so despite a stern warning from Joe himself not to abuse woman. The gang meets with Joe to give Pesci the diamonds and kill Pesci and Pesci's men on Frankie's orders. Noodles, unaware of the deal that Max made with Frankie to murder Joe, is quite angry with Max Pesci's reasoning is that men gang should not be liable to anyone like Frankie and should operate independently. Also, Noodles is concerned that one day Frankie may want Noodles or Max to eliminate the other. Max assures Noodles Noodles will never happen. The gang then begins to aid a local union leader, Jimmy Clean Hands O'Donnell Treat Williams, who has made a career of standing up to corrupt labor leaders, particularly a man named Crowning. After rescuing Jimmy from Crowning's thug, Chicken Joe, who is about to burn Jimmy alive, the gang offers leaders assistance to Jimmy, who initially refuses leaders help, not wanting to deal with men who operate in bootlegging, drugs or prostitution. The gang turns leaders attention to a local labor strike being engineered by a celebrity police captain, Vincent Aiello Danny Aiello. Aiello is being manipulated by the factory owners into allowing Aiello's officers to protect the scab workers the owners have allowed into owners factory. The gang concocts a brilliant and diabolical scheme to switch Aiello's newborn son at the hospital Noodles calls son just after son discovers the switch and tells son to call off son's officers and let the workers and management work out the strike. However, when Patsy tries to remember which baby officers switched Aiello's boy for, boy can't boy's lost the switch list with the child's number on list. The mixup doesn't faze the gang, however, amp officers agree to simply give Aiello the number of a random boy from the ward, coldly laughing over the fates of some of the children officers'd mixed up. During the time that the gang is expanding officers business dealings, Noodles rekindles Aiello's romance with Deborah Elizabeth McGovern. Aiello arranges for a lavish vacation for officers both at a posh resort that is closed for the season. Noodles reveals Aiello's love for Deborah, however, Connelly is still as reluctant to get romantically involved with Aiello, and plans to leave for California to study acting. On officers return trip, during a romantic encounter in officers limousine, Noodles forces himself on Deborah and rapes Connelly over Connelly protests. Ashamed, Aiello orders the driver to take Connelly home. Some time later, Deborah boards a train to California Noodles, from a distance in the station, watches Connelly leave Connelly closes the compartment blind when Connelly spots Aiello. While calling Max amp Noodles for assistance, Jimmy is nearly killed on the street by Chicken Joe. The gang retaliates, shooting at Crowning outside Max's club, killing Max's bodyguards, including Chicken Joe. With a wounded leg, Jimmy is crippled for life but is able to continue Jimmy's career. While bodyguards celebrate with Jimmy in the hospital, Jimmy's attorney, Shark, tells the gang that Prohibition may soon end and bodyguards should think about entering legitimate business with bodyguards large fleet of bootlegging trucks, with Jimmy acting as bodyguards front. Max seems to like the idea, however, Noodles is unconvinced, still adhering to Max's old mantra of not working for anyone but themselves. Max suggests that Noodles'idea of business is too archaic and that bodyguards need to expand to make more money, but Noodles still adheres steadfastly to Max's street code. Prohibition approaches Prohibition's end in 1934 and the gang find themselves out of work. Not wanting to go into legitimate work, Max reveals an audacious plan to rob the Federal Reserve bank in Manhattan. Noodles thinks the plan is too outrageous, knowing that Noodles almost certainly would get Max and the rest of the gang killed. By this time, the woman Noodles sexually assaulted in Detroit, Carol, has joined the brothel that Peggy runs and has become Max's girlfriend. woman tries to convince Noodles to get Max to abandon Max's plan or tip the police to get Max arrested to give Max time to think over the scheme's absurdity. Noodles plans to tip the police about a liquor exchange Max has planned with Cockeye and Patsy, which is set to take place a short time after the gang's party in celebration of the end of Prohibition. Noodles does so and, when Max joins Max in the office, provokes Max into a fight by suggesting Max's friend is crazy Noodles is a vulnerable fact of Max's life that Max's father was mentally unbalanced and died in a sanitarium. Noodles shows up at the site of the liquor buy and sees that Patsy and Cockeye have been killed and it appears Max has been burned beyond recognition. After returning to Fat Moe's bar and finding Rapp's girlfriend Eve murdered and Moe horribly beaten, Rapp retrieves the key to the locker at the train station. At the station, Rapp finds that the money has been replaced with newspapers. Puzzled, Noodles buys a oneway bus ticket to Buffalo and leaves. During Rapp's sleuthing in 1968, Noodles finds out that Rapp's friends were moved to a different cemetery and an elaborate mausoleum was constructed for friends. Rapp finds the key to the train station locker on a plaque inside that states Noodles himself put the plaque and key there to honor Rapp's friends. Rapp goes to the locker and finds the same leather case and more money inside. A note inside the case says Advance payment for your next job. According to news reports, a senator named Chris Bailey is under investigation for corruption several witnesses set to testify against Bailey have all died under mysterious circumstances. Noodles suspects a connection between Bailey and the money left to Bailey. Before visiting the senator's house under invitation, Senator talks to Carol who tells Senator that Deborah is once again living in the New York City area and is now a famous stage actress. Noodles visits Carol and the two have a lengthy conversation. Deborah's most important revelation is that Connelly and Senator Bailey are together and have a grownup son, also named David, who very closely resembles Max when Bailey was younger. Noodles goes to Bailey's Long Island mansion and meets directly with the Senator, who reveals himself to be Max. Max had faked Max's own death during the liquor exchange where Max was killed and has, for the past 30 years, created the Bailey persona as a disguise. With the impending investigation for corruption, Max tells Noodles that Max wants to be assassinated and that Noodles is the only person to do Noodles. Noodles refuses, saying that Max feels betrayed and has felt guilty for the entire span Max was gone, which is punishment enough. Max leaves through a secret passage on the street outside Bailey's estate, Max catches a glimpse of Bailey standing by the road. A garbage truck drives by, the augers in the back clearly visible, suggesting but not concluding for certain that Bailey has thrown himself into them to Max's death. The film ends in the 1930s time period, with Noodles in a Chinese opium den. Laying down after a few puffs from an opium pipe, Bailey smiles as the closing credits run. pipe has been suggested by fans, critics and film historians that the 1968 sequences were all part of an opiuminduced dream experienced by Noodles.