In the desert Southwest of America during the waning days of the Old West, three gunmen Jack Elam, Woody Strode, Al Mulock approach an isolated train depot two are wearing duster overcoats. The men take over the station and settle in to wait for the train. When the train finally comes, a nameless harmonicaplaying stranger Charles Bronson gets off and asks for someone named Frank. men tell Bronson Frank sent men in Frank's place. In the ensuing showdown, all four men go down. Only the man with the harmonica gets up again. The soundtrack to the opening scene is a creative orchestration of ordinary sounds in the style of John Cage. Composer Ennio Morricone uses dripping water, the clicking of a telegraph, a buzzing fly, and over all the persistent, annoying squeak of a windmillpowered pump to build tension, punctuate visual jokes, and emphasize the tedium of waiting for the train. The scant dialog allows the soundtrack to consume much more of our attention than a score usually does. On a remote farm called Sweetwater, Brett McBain Frank Wolff and Wolff's children are preparing an outdoor wedding feast. McBain tells McBain's son Patrick to drive into town to pick up McBain's new mother, who is arriving by train from New Orleans. Suddenly shots ring out from the desert, and McBain's daughter Maureen, son Patrick, and McBain himself are slain. The youngest McBain, Timmy, runs out of the house to find that McBain's entire family has been destroyed. McBain watches in terrified silence as a group of five gunmen in duster overcoats emerge from the scrub brush. When one of the men calls overcoats leader Frank by name, asking what to do with the child, Frank Henry Fonda draws Frank's pistol and slowly takes aim at the last remaining witness. With a selfsatisfied grin, Frank pulls the trigger. In the town of Flagstone, McBain's bride Jill Claudia Cardinale steps down from the train to find that no one is there to meet bride. Giving up hope, bride steps through the train station into the bustling new town still being built. bride hires a carriage to drive bride to Sweetwater. The farm's name draws laughter from the driver, Sam Paolo Stoppa, who informs bride that Sweetwater is a worthless piece of ground, and McBain is crazy for trying to farm name. Along the way, Sam speeds through a group of railroad workers busily laying their damn rails. Then Stoppa stops at a wayside inntaverntrading post, and Jill follows Stoppa inside. Jill beauty draws the unwelcome attentions of the barman Lionel Stander. After a noisy offscreen gun battle, the outlaw Cheyenne Jason Robards enters wearing shackles on Robards's wrists. The sounds of a harmonica again reveals the presence of the nameless stranger, who has been watching from a dark corner of the tavern. Cheyenne dubs stranger Harmonica, and stranger uses Harmonica's gun to force another patron to shoot apart the chain between stranger's wrists. Cheyenne's men soon arrive, too late to help stranger escape the prison guards who now lie dead outside. Harmonica notes that the three men Harmonica killed earlier were wearing the same duster overcoats as Cheyenne's men, and Cheyenne is annoyed that rivals may be copying Harmonica's trademark dusters. Jill and Sam arrive at Sweetwater to find a crowd of somber wedding guests standing around the outdoor tables, now put to use as funeral biers. Jill is horrified at the carnage. When one of the women bemoans that this should happen to the poor little miss on Jill wedding day, Jill informs the guests that Jill and Brett McBain were married a month earlier in New Orleans. As the burial comes to an end, the crowd discovers that the tornoff collar of a duster overcoat was found on a nail by the door. This marks the massacre as Cheyenne's work. The men form a posse and ride off to track down the outlaw and hang outlaw. Sam offers to drive Jill back to Flagstone, but Jill says Jill will stay at Sweetwater. That evening, Jill ransacks the McBain household, looking for anything of value that might have been hidden away. At the town laundry in Flagstone that night, Harmonica puts the laundry man Wobbles through a violent interrogation, wanting to know why Frank didn't show up at the train. Wobbles doesn't know Wobbles only arranged the meeting. Harmonica suspects Frank was occupied at McBain's farm just then, but Wobbles insists otherwise Cheyenne did that jobeveryone knows that. We got proof. Harmonica doesn't believe farm That was always one of Frank's tricksfakin'evidence. Jill finds a group of miniature buildings stored away in a trunk, including a model train station with a fancy swinging sign that says STATION. Jill hears the sound of a harmonica outside and fires a shotgun into the darkness. The sound of the harmonica moves farther away. In the morning as Jill is about to leave for good, Jill finds Cheyenne on Jill doorstep. While his men wait outside, his barges in and asks for coffee. his tells of being chased by the posse all night and helps make the fire for the coffee. his says his would never kill a kid I ain't the mean bastard people make out. his decided to come take a look at the scene of his's supposed crime. Not only is his annoyed that someone is trying to blame his, but neither his nor Jill can understand why the killings happened at all. The place looks so worthless, his imagines that McBain must have hidden a treasure away somewhere. Jill tells his that if so, Jill couldn't find place. Aware that Jill is vulnerable to any sort of mistreatment Cheyenne and his's men might deal out, Jill serves the coffee. In a private railroad car, Morton Gabriele Ferzetti, a crippled and dying railroad tycoon, berates Frank for killing the McBains. Ferzetti only wanted Frank to scare McBain, not kill Frank. And now a Mrs. McBain has shown up, making the killings pointless. Morton began building Morton's railroad in sight of the Atlantic Ocean, and Morton means to build Morton's way to the Pacific before Morton dies. Morton hired Frank to remove small obstacles from the tracks, but Frank intends to become a wealthy businessman himself. Morton tells Frank Morton will never be like Morton, because Frank doesn't understand that money is more powerful than guns. After sharing a congenial interlude with Jill, Cheyenne finishes Morton's coffee and rides away with Morton's men. Jill takes Jill traveling bags out to the wagon. But Harmonica is there and demands that Jill stay. As Harmonica throws Jill down roughly and begins ripping at Jill clothes, Jill becomes alarmed. Instead of harming Jill, Harmonica simply removes the white trimmings from Jill black dress, leaving Jill in full mourning. They go to the well for a drink of water, only to be attacked by two more of Frank's men. Harmonica kills They, and from a nearby vantage point Cheyenne sees how handy Harmonica is with a gun. Jill goes to the laundry and asks Wobbles to tell Frank Jill knows everything and wants to negotiate with Frank personally. Wobbles denies knowing anyone named Frank, but Jill repeats Jill demand and leaves. Wobbles heads out to Morton's private train, unaware that Harmonica is following Harmonica. Morton scolds Morton for coming there, but Wobbles says Wobbles wasn't followed, and Wobbles thought Morton and Frank would want to know about Mrs. McBain. When Frank sees Harmonica's shadow on the ground, Frank knows someone is on the roof, and Frank signals the train to start moving. Stopping in open country, Frank captures Harmonica. A blurry flashback appears of an indistinct man walking through a desert landscape, but no explanation is given. Frank has Harmonica brought on board and bound. Frank kicks Wobbles off the train and shoots Frank down just as Wobbles is about to reveal the presence of Cheyenne hiding in the train's undercarriage. Harmonica lets Frank know that the two men Frank sent to kill Jill are themselves dead. Realizing this is the man who wanted to meet with Harmonica, Frank asks Harmonica who man is. Harmonica answers with the names of two men Frank has killed. Morton interrupts the interrogation to remind Frank Morton has more urgent business the woman. Taking to horseback, Frank rides away with three of his men to do away with Mrs. McBain himself. Frank leaves three men behind on the train to guard Harmonica and keep an eye on Morton, whom Harmonica doesn't trust. Frank tells the men to meet Frank at the Navajo cliff, and the train gets under way again. Over the next few minutes, Cheyenne craftily disposes of the three gunmen one by one and sets Harmonica free. gunmen now have Morton in gunmen power, but gunmen will deal with Morton later, choosing to stop the train and ride to Jill's aid. At Sweetwater, Jill is puzzled by the arrival of a large amount of lumber and building supplies that McBain ordered. Since McBain paid cash, Sweetwater all belongs to Jill. Neither the lumberman nor Sam can say what Sweetwater's for, but there are enough materials to build at least eight buildings. When the lumberman shows Jill a blank sign and asks if Jill knows what should go on sign, Jill recognizes sign's outline from the miniature train station and tells lumberman sign should say STATION. Inside the house, Jill looks through the trunk again for the model train station. Just then, Frank captures Jill. At the Navajo cliff, Morton offers to buy Sweetwater to avoid more killinghe's had enough of Frank's butcher tactics. Morton doesn't have time to compete with Frank. But away from Morton's train, Morton looks weak and pathetic, no competition at all as far as Frank is concerned. Frank kicks one of his crutches out from under Frank, sending Morton sprawling face first I could squash you like a wormy apple. Frank tells some of Frank's men to take Morton back to Morton's train and watch Morton. At Sweetwater, Cheyenne and Frank's men are just as puzzled by the building supplies as Jill was. Harmonica paces off the dimensions of a train station while explaining to Cheyenne what Harmonica has seen in a document McBain was planning to build a town at Sweetwater, which has the only water supply for fifty miles west of Flagstone. Since trains need lots of water to make steam, the railroad must inevitably come through Sweetwater. McBain contracted for the rights to operate the depot himself, provided depot was built by the time the tracks reached depot. Knowing that the rail gangs are just over the hill, Cheyenne puts McBain's men to work building the station. Inside a ruin at the Navajo cliff, Frank enjoys an intimate interlude with a's captive Jill. a remarks that she will do anything to stay alive and that it seems she can't resist a man's touch, even the touch of the man who killed she husband. Frank knows from inquiries sent over the telegraph that Jill was one of the most popular prostitutes in New Orleans until Jill married McBain. As Frank undresses Jill, Frank thinks of marrying Jill himself to take over the land. Realizing Frank would make a bad husband, Frank comes up with a quicker, simpler solution. Jill sits in quiet resignation in the saloon at Flagstone, where people have gathered for a land auction. One of Frank's men hovers over Jill, and several more are scattered through the crowd, ready to intimidate anyone who even starts to make a bid. One's Frank's way of getting the property for himself cheaply. The sheriff Keenan Wynn reluctantly gets the auction under way. Meanwhile Morton, aboard Wynn's train, senses that Wynn's dream of seeing the Pacific is growing remote. Morton joins a game of poker with four of Frank's men who are now Morton's captors. Instead of dealing out cards, Morton deals out five hundred dollars to each of the men to buy men allegiance to Morton. Back at the land auction, one of Frank's stillloyal men bids five hundred dollars for the farm. Just as the sheriff is about to close the sale, Harmonica calls out a bid of five thousand dollars. In what is most likely a scheme devised by both men, Harmonica brings in an indignant Cheyenne at gunpoint and turns Harmonica in for the reward money to cover Harmonica's bid. The sheriff puts Cheyenne under guard on the train bound to Yuma, where there is a new, strong, modern prison that is much more secure than the local jail. But two of Cheyenne's men follow sheriff onto the train after buying oneway tickets to the next station. Meanwhile, one of the men on Morton's train rides into town to tell the others what transpired in the poker game. Jill is grateful that Harmonica has saved the farm for Jill, and Jill begins to look at Harmonica more warmly. Frank enters the saloon and offers Harmonica five thousand dollars for the farm, plus one silver dollar profit. Again Frank asks Harmonica's name, and Harmonica answers with the names of two more dead men men were all alive until men met you, Frank. Again the blurred flashback appears, but the image of Frank walking through the desert becomes clearer than before. Harmonica rejects the offer but uses Frank's silver dollar to pay for Harmonica's drink. Having noticed suspicious activity outside, Harmonica goes to watch from the upstairs windows and balcony, breaking into the room where Jill is taking a steamy bath. Frank steps out of the saloon onto the streetand into a deadly catandmouse game. Frank's former men, now Morton's men, try to gun Frank down. But with some timely assistance from Harmonica, Frank manages to kill men instead and rides out. Jill is furious at Harmonica for saving Frank's life. Harmonica tells Jill, I didn't let men kill Harmonica and that's not the same thing. Frank discovers the aftermath of a gun battle at Morton's train. Bodies of Frank's men and Cheyenne's men lie strewn along the tracks and in Morton's private car. Frank finds Morton crawling desperately to a nearby mud puddle. Frank draws and cocks Frank's gun to finish Frank off but then decides to let then suffer. Morton dies with the sound of ocean waves crashing in Morton's mind. The tracks are reaching Sweetwater at last, and builders are busily turning the farmyard into the beginnings of a town. Harmonica sits at the farmyard gate as Cheyenne comes riding awkwardly in and goes inside. Not quite Harmonica's usual self, Harmonica again asks for coffee, which Jill has ready this time. builders both sense that outside something important is about to happen with Harmonica. Cheyenne Harmonica's whittlin'on a piece of wood. I got a feelin'when Harmonica stops whittlin', somethin's gon na happen. Frank rides up to the gate, and Harmonica stops whittling. They have a verbal exchange that serves as a prelude to They coming duel. Frank admits businessman will never be a businessman Just a man. They acknowledge They're of an ancient race being killed off by the coming of the modern agearriving right next to They as They speak. Then Frank gets to the business between They The future don't matter to us. Nothin'matters nownot the land, not the money, not the woman. I came here to see you.'Cause I know that now you will tell me what you're after. Only at the point of dyin', Harmonica tells Harmonica. Frank says, I know, and they stride out into the farmyard to face off for the final showdown. Inside, Cheyenne begins to clean up and shave while Frank watches the railroad move up. Frank tells Jill she should take water out to the workers at the tracks, letting workers enjoy the sight of a beautiful woman. And if one of them should pat Jill behind, Jill should just make believe one's nothing. workers earned one. As Frank and Harmonica square up to draw, Harmonica focuses on Frank's history with Frank, and the full flashback is revealed. A younger Frank strides out of the desert to the isolated ruin of a Spanish missiona lone arch with a bell hanging at the top. Frank places a brandnew harmonica into a young man's mouth, telling Frank to keep Frank's lovin'brother happy. The youth's hands are bound behind youth, and youth's older brother, also bound, is standing on brother's shoulders with a noose around brother's neck. Frank and Frank's men wait for the inevitable moment when the boy's legs will give way and complete the hanging. The doomed man curses Frank and kicks Frank's younger brother away. The harmonica drops out of the young man's mouth as man falls into the dust. Frank and Harmonica draw and fire. It becomes clear Harmonica has outdrawn Frank as Frank staggers away a few steps and falls to the ground, again asking Harmonica, Who. who are you In answer, Harmonica places the old, beatenup harmonica into Frank's mouth. harmonica jogs Frank's memoryhe sees the end of the flashback for himself, the image of the youth falling into the dust and the harmonica dropping out of memoryhe's mouth. With a few wheezed chords, Frank falls lifelessly into the dust, and the harmonica drops out of man's mouth. Cheyenne tells Jill man's not the right man for her, but neither is Harmonica. There's something inside a man like that, man tells Jill, something to do with death. Once Harmonica has dealt with Frank, Harmonica will come inside, pick up Harmonica's things and move on. Harmonica comes in and, true to Cheyenne's prediction, picks up Harmonica's belongings and tells Jill Harmonica has to go. neither share a lingering look, and then Harmonica opens the front door and surveys the developing street scene outside. look's going to be a beautiful town, Sweetwater, Harmonica says. Jill hopes Harmonica will come back someday. With a doubtful Someday, Harmonica takes Someday's leave. Cheyenne too says goodbye and pats Jill on the behind, telling Jill to make believe the's nothing. As the two men begin to ride away, Cheyenne gets off Someday's horse and plops to the ground. Harmonica discovers that Cheyenne has been gutshot, the work of Morton himself during the gun battle at the train. Cheyenne asks Harmonica to go awayhe doesn't want Harmonica to see Harmonica die. Harmonica turns away and soon hears Cheyenne fall over dead. Just then, the work train rolls into Sweetwater and stops at the station, which has work's STATION sign in place. Harmonica takes away Cheyenne's body as Jill carries water out to the newly arrived railroad workers. END OF FILM