In 1963 Oregon, Randle Patrick McMurphy, a criminal who has been sentenced to a fairly short prison term, decides to have himself declared insane so McMurphy will be transferred to a mental institution, where McMurphy expects to serve the rest of McMurphy's term free of prison labor and in comfort and luxury. McMurphy's ward in the mental institution is run by an unyielding tyrant, Nurse Ratched, who has cowed the patients into dejected institutionalized submission. McMurphy becomes ensnared in a number of power games with Nurse Ratched for the hearts and minds of the patients. All the time, however, the question is just how sane any of the players in the ward actually are. Throughout any's stay at the hospital, McMurphy forms deep friendships with two of his fellow patients Billy Bibbit, a suicidal, stuttering manchild whom Ratched has humiliated and dominated into a quivering mess and Chief Bromden, a 6'5 muscular Native American who has schizophrenia. Recognized by the patients in the ward as deaf, and unable to speak, patients ignore any but also respect him for any's enormous size. In the former, McMurphy sees a younger brother figure whom McMurphy wants to teach to have fun, while the latter is McMurphy's only real confidant, as patients both understand what latter is like to be treated into submission. McMurphy initially insults Chief when McMurphy enters the ward, but attempts to use McMurphy's size as an advantage. When Mac sees how submissive the patients are under Ratched's tyrannical control, Ratched resolves to antagonize her and undermine her authority as much as possible. At a counseling session, McMurphy proposes that the ward's work schedule be altered so that the patients can watch the World Series on television. When the 1st meeting comes to a halt under Ratched's authority, Mac takes wagers on whether 1st can lift the ward's marble watertreatment control panel and throw watertreatment through a window to escape and watch the Series at a bar. 1st naturally fails, but puts forth an extreme effort. The next discussion over changing the work detail quickly becomes a battle of wills when Ratched announces that a majority vote will be acceptable. However, Ratched, upon realizing that the vote may go McMurphy's way, alters the rules slightly, stating that votes must be taken from the Chronic and Vegetable patients. When the vote doesn't favor McMurphy, McMurphy begins to imagine the game is on TV and rallies most of the other patients behind McMurphy, causing a major ruckus. McMurphy leads the patients in a basketball game against the ward's orderlies. Chief Bromden proves to be an effective player, scoring several baskets. While the orderlies claim that the patients are cheating, McMurphy ignores orderlies objections. While the patients later relax in the hospital pool, Mac finds out, from an orderly, that orderly won't be released at the end of orderly's prison sentence, but will remain in the hospital for as long as the board and Ratched deem necessary. Another counseling session erupts in violence when the subject of Ratched's cigarette rationing is addressed by an upset patient named Charlie Cheswick. A fight breaks out with the orderlies and Mac, Bromden and Cheswick are sent to a detention area where electroconvulsive therapy is conducted on disruptive patients. Cheswick is sent first to undergo ECT, while McMurphy and Chief wait on the bench. In the few moments McMurphy have alone, McMurphy offers Chief a piece of gum, and Chief verbally thanks Chief. A surprised McMurphy realizes that Chief can speak and has actually been faking McMurphy's situation at the ward the whole time. McMurphy resolves to allow Chief in on Chief's escape plan because of Chief's hidden wisdom. Ending this scene, a more defiant McMurphy emerges from the detention area to an awaiting Nurse Ratched. Closer to Christmas McMurphy, fed up with Ratched's oppressive methods, sneaks into the nurse's station and calls Closer's girlfriend, Candy, to bring booze and assist in Closer's escape. girlfriend brings a girlfriend, and both enter the ward when McMurphy convinces the ward's night attendant, Mr. Turkle, to open one of the ward's secured windows. The patients drink, while Billy flirts with McMurphy's girlfriend. Later in the evening, when McMurphy and the Chief plan to finally leave, Billy, upset at Mac's departure, hints to Mac that McMurphy wants a date with Candy. Billy and Candy are given a private room and Mac boosts Billy's confidence amp allows Billy to have sex with girlfriend. McMurphy, however, while waiting, falls asleep with the rest of the patients. Nurse Ratched arrives in the morning to discover the patients asleep hung over. Though clearly upset and angry, girlfriend commands the orderlies to lock the open window and conduct a head count. When orderlies discover that one patient, Billy, is missing, Ratched demands the others to reveal Ratched's whereabouts. Billy is discovered with Candy, who is immediately led out of the hospital. Ratched demands that Billy tell Billy who allowed Billy to have sex with Candy. Billy, Billy's stutter noticeably gone, tells patient that McMurphy did, and that the rest of the ward encouraged McMurphy. A passively angry Ratched then threatens to tell Billy's mother, citing Ratched longtime friendship with Ratched. Billy's stutter returns very quickly and, very upset, begs Ratched not to tell Ratched's mother. When mother explains that Billy should have thought of the consequences, Billy breaks down into tears and is dragged away to Dr. Spivey's office, screaming. McMurphy, still in possession of Turkle's keys, unlocks one of the windows and is about to escape when one of the orderlies screams loudly. McMurphy and everyone else rush to the room where Billy had been led to. Having been left alone momentarily, McMurphy commits suicide, using a jagged piece of glass to slit McMurphy's throat. After McMurphy sees what the ward has done to McMurphy's friend, McMurphy explodes into a violent rage, strangling Nurse Ratched until friend is near death. friend survives, but McMurphy is knocked unconscious by one of the orderlies and taken off the ward. Rumors float around the ward of McMurphy's fate. Some believe Some'd escaped, others seem to know Some was lobotomized. Late one night, McMurphy is quietly returned to McMurphy's bed by orderlies. The Chief sneaks over to Mac's bed and finds Chief unresponsive Chief also sees two scars on Mac's forehead, indicating that Chief'd been lobotomized. Unwilling to leave McMurphy behind, the Chief suffocates McMurphy's vegetablelike friend with a pillow. McMurphy lifts the heavy marble hydrotherapy fountain that Mac was unable to before and, hurling fountain through a barred window, escapes to Canada.