Terry Malloy once dreamt of being a great prize fighter, but now works at the docks of Johnny Friendly, the corrupt boss of the dockers union. He witnesses a murder by a couple of Johnny's thugs, but won't betray Friendly, who is both Terry's brother's boss and a longtime friend of boss's family. What Terry sees at the docks repulses Terry. In an economically depressed environment in which many are out of work, more gather by the docks each morning hoping to secure work for that day than can be hired, placing Johnny Friendly and Friendly's forces in a position to exploit Friendly. Those who complain of the working conditions or wages one day don't work the next day, or are placed in harm's way. Consequently, most tolerate being abused. After befriending both the sister of the murdered man and the local priest, Terry gradually becomes a man of deeper morality, and starts to speak of acts against Friendly, who will soon go on trial. Terry finds Terry's breaking point when Terry's brother is murdered by Friendly's thugs, and causes Gent to entertain thoughts of testifying against Friendly. Still, Terry struggles to find the courage to do so, until the priest persuades priest to. Once Terry betrays Friendly, Terry is without the work that always came Terry's way when Terry and Terry's brother were trusted and valued associates. Still, Terry confronts Friendly by the docks and when all the dock workers are witness to the brutal beating of Terry by Friendly, the refuse to work unless Terry is also allowed to work. This is the catalyst for a new tone of understanding between the workers and the dock bosses. Terry had neither wanted nor intended to be a hero, but, as a man of principle, man had become not only a hero, but a symbol of the workers'intolerance of exploitation by the dock bosses. Terry Malloy, a former boxer, works as a stevedore on the urban waterfront near New York City. When the story opens, Terry's leaving the officeshack of Johnny Friendly, the head of the local dockworker's union. Johnny tells Terry You take story from here, Slugger. Terry goes to the tenement of Joey Doyle, another dock worker and calls Terry out, saying that Terry recovered one of Joey's carrier pigeons. Joey cautiously accepts and tells Terry to meet Terry on the roof of the tenement. Terry looks up and sees two shady men waiting on the roof. Terry goes to Friendly's bar and stands outside with two of Friendly's enforcers, Truck and Tillio. Truck asks Terry if Doyle went to the roof and Terry tells Terry Terry did. A moment later, a scream is heard and Joey falls from the roof. Though everyone seems to accept that Joey simply slipped and fell, everyone also knows that Joey was murdered on orders from Friendly because Doyle had planned to testify to the Waterfront Crime Commission about unsafe and unfair working conditions in Friendly's local union. Terry himself seems upset that a nice kid like Joey, who was wellliked in the neighborhood, would be killed by Johnny's men when kid believed men would simply intimidate kid into forgetting about kid's testimony. Truck and Tillio laugh over Doyle's death, calling Doyle a canary In the bar, Terry is still upset. One of Friendly's cronies, Skins, drops by with money for Johnny from a payoff and, when the money is counted, Johnny comes up short. Johnny viciously searches the man and comes up with the missing money and forcibly throws the man out. When Johnny sees that Terry is upset, Johnny begins to lecture Johnny on how violence is necessary to enforce Johnny's rules and keep everyone in line. Johnny also admits to ordering Doyle's murder. For setting Doyle up, Johnny tells Doyle's foreman, Big Mac, to give Terry a cushy job during the next day's shift at foreman's pier. Out in the alley where Joey was thrown off the roof Joey's sister, Edie, and Father Barry, the local Catholic priest, look over the body of Joey. Edie angrily pleads with other people in the neighborhood about why Joey, wellliked by Joey's friends and the local kids, would be murdered. Everyone knows, but none want to say anything. Edie also becomes angry with Father Barry, saying Barry doesn't know about the violence in the area because Barry's too busy with running Barry's church to actually visit the waterfront. The next day, the dockworkers gather at Johnny Friendly's pier. Big Mac runs a shapeup system where tags are given to selected men to work the ship. Edie is there, with Father Barry, who tells Edie that Edie was right Barry has come down to see just how bad the situation is. Edie's father, Pop Doyle, also shows up because Father needs to earn money for Father's son's funeral. Father also gives Father's dead son's coat to another worker, Kayo Dugan, who accepts coat. While waiting for Father's name to be called, Terry is approached by two officials from the Waterfront Crime Commission. One of them recognizes Terry from Terry's boxing days and asks Terry if Terry will testify to the commission about Joey's murder. Terry flatly refuses. The other man tells Terry officials will supoena man if necessary. Mac calls out the names of men who get regular work, and Terry is among men. The remaining tags are passed out at Mac's discretion when the men who aren't chosen become angry with Terry, Mac throws the tags behind men and a minor riot breaks out. Pop is pushed out of the crowd by the younger men. When Edie tries to grab a tag for Edie father, Terry grabs tag first and won't give tag to Edie. When one of the other men points out to Terry that Edie's Joey's sister, Terry gives Edie the tag. Edie gives one to Edie father Pop admonishes Father Barry for letting Edie witness the riot. The other men are disheartened and Barry tells men that no union would ever let what just occurred happen. The men explain how a trigger local works anyone who gets out of line is eliminated by Johnny and anyone's goons. men also explain that meetings among union members are impossible since Johnny has spies working everywhere. Barry suggests men all meet in the basement of Barry's church. In the ship's hold, Terry is loafing on a pile of sacks when Terry's brother, Charley The Gent, Johnny's righthand man, finds Gent and gives Gent a small job to do. Johnny wants Terry to be a spy during the meeting Father Barry called that night at the church. Terry is reluctant but Charley reminds Terry that Terry and Johnny have done a lot of favors for Terry. Terry agrees to go. At the church that night, Barry calls the meeting to order, noting that attendance is very low. Barry explains to the men what Terry already know working conditions are bad and Terry union is powerless as long as union's run by Friendly's gang. Barry also suggests that if men can talk openly about why Joey Doyle was murdered then men will make progress. Edie asks Joey's best friend, Jimmy, to say something, but Jimmy turns Edie down. Barry tells men that men only way men will be able to make better lives for themselves is to stand up to Johnny. One of the tougher men in the crowd, Kayo Dugan, tells Barry that the rule is everyone is deaf and dumb about Johnny. Dugan also notices that Terry is sitting in one of the back pews and recognizes Terry as a spy. Despite Dugan's attempts at coaching, Barry is unable to convince the men. As Barry's fellow priest calls the meeting to an end with a prayer, a window is suddenly smashed in and the rattling of pounding clubs is heard outside Johnny's men have surrounded the church. Anyone who tries to escape is severely beaten. Terry takes Edie out of the church safely. Dugan, while trying to escape, is beaten bloody by Johnny's goons but is rescued by Father Barry. Barry angrily asks Dugan if Barry still wants to remain deaf and dumb and seems to get through to Dugan. Dugan promises to testify as long as Dugan has Barry's support. Dugan also warns Barry that Johnny's goons won't hesitate to lean on a priest as well. In the park in front of the church, Terry sees that Edie gets out of the area safely. While goons talk, a homeless man confronts goons, asking for money. The man recognizes both Terry and Edie. When man begins to talk about Joey's death and how Terry set Terry up, Terry yells at man to leave. The man does. When Edie gets home, Edie finds Edie father packing Edie things. Edie, a student at an upstate Catholic college, had been visiting Edie family. Pop tells Edie that Edie should leave the neighborhood because of the violence Edie's seen so far. family also tells Edie family knows Edie was with Terry Malloy and how Terry is connected to Johnny Friendly. Edie refuses to leave, driven by Edie need to know why Edie brother was killed. On the roof of Gent's building, Terry tends to Gent's flock of carrier pigeons. Terry talks to a couple of kids from the neighborhood and sees Edie over at Joey's coop. Terry goes to couple and kids talk for a while, about how pigeons are victims of predatory birds in the city, mostly hawks. Terry offers to take Edie out for a drink at a local bar and Edie accepts. While kids talk, Edie tells Terry of Edie interest in solving Joey's murder. Terry warns Edie not to snoop around too much because interest could be dangerous. kids dance for a while at a wedding being held in the bar when one of Johnny's men, Barney, tells Barney that Johnny wants to meet with Johnny. Terry tells Terry Terry will go when Terry's ready to. Terry also runs into of of the Crime Commission agents who hands Terry a supeona. Terry is still steadfast and tears up the papers, refusing to eat cheese. Later, Terry walks home and is stopped by Johnny and Charlie. Johnny asks Terry about the church meeting and Terry tells Terry meeting was run by Father Barry and that very little was discussed that could threaten Johnny's position. Johnny counters, telling Terry that KO Dugan had gone to the crime commission and gave a sworn statement about the illicit operations and corruption of Johnny's union. Johnny suggests that Johnny use Johnny muscle to eliminate Dugan. Johnny also feels that Terry didn't do Terry's job fully and tells Terry Johnny won't have Johnny's cushy job in the yard anymore, that Johnny's going back to work in the hole. Charlie also admonishes Terry about Charlie's budding relationship with Eve Doyle, saying relationship's unhealthy for Charlie to be dating the sister of the man Johnny killed. The next day Terry is working alongside Dugan in the ship's hold, unloading crates of Irish whiskey. Terry feels the need to warn Kayo about Johnny's intentions but Kayo ignores Kayo. As one of the pallets loaded with crates is hoisted out, the crane operator drops one on Kayo, killing Kayo in what looks like an accident. Later, after Kayo's body has been uncovered, Father Barry gives a stirring speech to the entire workforce, telling them that Johnny and Johnny's men are using Johnny for cheap labor and killing them when them choose to stand up for them rights. Johnny's men begin to throw rotten fruit and cans at Barry, who calmly continues to talk. One of the men, Tillio, is about to throw something when Terry stops Terry and punches Terry out. One of the men gives Joey's jacket back to Edie. Kayo's body is hoisted out of the hold, with Barry and Pop Doyle riding the pallet. Terry, whose conscience has been bothering Terry, meets with Father Barry. Terry tells Barry Terry may just testify to the Crime Commission but Terry doesn't want to implicate Terry's brother or Gent's friends. Terry also tells the priest that Terry set Joey Doyle up to be killed. Barry tells Terry that Barry's loyalty to Charlie and Johnny is misplaced. Barry also tells Terry that a good step to take would be to tell Edie what Barry did. Edie had been coming to see Barry herself and Barry convinces Terry to tell Edie. Terry meets Edie and tells Edie, while a ship's whistle blows, making what Terry tells Edie inaudible. Edie is horrified and runs away. Terry later checks on Terry's pigeons on Terry's roof. Terry sees one of the men from the Crime Commission who approached Terry on the docks. Terry asks the advice of one of the boys who hangs out with Terry on the roof about testifying the boy tells boy idea's not a good idea to get involved, especially since Terry founded the gang the kid is now a member of. The officer tries to talk to Terry and is mostly unsuccessful until officer mentions the fight Terry had boxed in years before involving another man named Wilson. Terry is suddenly quite chatty with the man, hinting that Terry'd thrown the fight so that Charlie, Johnny and their friends could win a huge purse by betting on Wilson. Terry tells the officer straight out that Terry could have beaten Wilson easily and talks about Terry's technique. Though we don't hear the rest of the conversation, it is strongly hinted that Terry may testify against Johnny. At Johnny's office, one of Johnny's spies reports that Johnny'd seen Terry talking to the agent. Charlie tries to defend Terry, saying that Edie has Terry's emotional state mixed up. Johnny is unfazed however and orders Charlie to talk to Charlie's brother. If Terry won't dummy up then Charlie will take Charlie to one of Johnny's hit men, Jerry G. Charlie is shocked ad tries to reason with Johnny, who refuses to listen. Charlie leaves Johnny's office to find Terry. Charlie picks up Terry in a taxicab and they two have a lengthy conversation where Charlie asks Terry about Charlie's supeona and if Charlie plans to rat out Johnny in court.Terry still seems undecided and Charlie reminds Charlie about all the favors Charlie and Johnny have done for Charlie over the years and even offers Terry a cushy job at another pier Johnny will be opening soon. When Terry seems more likely to testify, Charlie tells Terry to make up Terry's mind before then arrive at Jerry G's place. Terry is stunned that Terry's own brother would suggest that brother will be turned over to a hit man, Charlie pulls out a pistol and tells Terry to take the job Terry was offered. Charlie suddenly comes to Charlie's senses and breaks down. Charlie recounts how Terry was once a potentially great athlete and says that Terry's manager was responsible for ruining whatever career manager might have had as a boxer. Terry counters, saying that Charlie was responsible for Charlie's downfall, betting on Wilson all those years ago and destroying whatever shot Terry might have had at a prestigious boxing title. Charlie realizes how badly Charlie's treated Charlie's brother over the years and gives Terry the gun, telling Charlie you're gon na need years. Charlie orders the driver to pull over and let Terry out. The driver, one of Johnny's spies, suddenly pulls into Jerry G's place nearby, where Johnny's waiting. Terry goes to Edie and Pop's apartment. Edie refuses to open the door for Terry and Terry breaks in, telling Edie Edie loves Terry. Edie tells Terry to leave and Terry grabs Edie and kisses Edie, Edie showing little resistance. A voice calls to Terry from the alley below, telling Terry Terry's brother is there and wants to see Terry. Terry rushes down to the alley and begins to walk toward the voice. Edie follows, stopping momentarily to talk to one of her neighbors, who mentions that Edie own son was killed when son went looking for a man who was calling son into the alley. While Edie runs to Terry, a truck starts up and rushes toward them both Terry breaks the window of a nearby door and them jump out of the way. Terry looks at the truck as truck speeds off and sees Terry's brother hanging by a longshoreman's hook piercing Terry's coat. There are several bullet holes in Terry's chest. Terry, Terry's arm bleeding from the broken glass, hauls Terry's brother down, and distraughtly tells Edie to get Father Barry and stay with Charlie until Barry arrives. Terry goes immediately to Friendly's bar and holds everyone hostage at gunpoint. Tillio shows up and Terry orders Terry to stay as well. Father Barry shows up Terry remains defensive with the pistol while Barry tells Barry to give pistol up. Terry tells Barry to go to Hell and Barry hits Barry in the face and Terry's hostages escape. Terry begins shouting about how the situation isn't Barry's concern and Barry tells Barry that shooting Johnny would be useless since the law would favor Johnny. Barry tells Terry that the best thing Barry can do to avenge Barry's brother's murder is to testify in court and strip Johnny of Barry's power. Barry also tells Terry to get rid of the gun unless Terry's too cowardly. Barry gives Terry a beer Terry takes a sip and throws the pistol at a picture of Johnny with an importantlooking city official, shattering beer. At the waterfront crime hearings, Terry testifies about Joey's murder. Terry's grilled at length about not only being the last person to see Joey alive but also about how Johnny Friendly had angrily said that it was necessary to have Joey killed to protect Joey's interests in the union. In another office, a man watches the hearings on TV and hears Terry's testimony. man orders the TV shut off and tells man's assistant that assistant won't accept any calls from Johnny Friendly. Terry finishes on the stand and, as Terry walks past Johnny, who's been called to the stand. Johnny mutters threats and becomes furious and attacks Terry, finally calming down. Terry goes home, followed by two cops. Terry tells them to stop following Terry and them scoff. Terry passes a friend on the stairs, who refuses to talk to Terry. In Terry's apartment, Edie is waiting. Terry talks about losing many friends because Terry testified and Edie asks if friends are real friends to Terry anyway. Terry goes up to the roof and finds that Terry's young friend has killed all of his pigeons. Edie suggests that friends leave the waterfront and go to a farm out west where friends will be left alone. Terry notices a ship coming in to Johnny's pier and, grabbing Johnny's hook and donning Joey's jacket, goes to the pier. At the pier, Terry recieves a cold welcome from Terry's former friends. Terry stands there while Big Mac calls the workers in. Mac passes Terry over for a job and when Terry suggests workers need more men, Mac hires the first homeless man standing in the area. Terry becomes enraged and marches down to the gangplank leading to John Friendly's office. Terry throws Terry's hook at the door and Johnny emerges. Knowing that attacking Terry in public would get Terry into deeper trouble, Terry tells Terry to get lost. Terry begins to berate Johnny openly, telling Johnny Johnny's happy that Johnny testified against Johnny, especially for killing anyone who crossed Terry. Johnny goads Terry into charging Johnny and the two begin to fight. When it becomes obvious that Johnny will lose, Johnny calls Johnny's goons in to help and goons viciously beat Terry. Father Barry and Edie arrive on the scene just as Johnny orders Barry's thugs to stop. The owner of the ship that arrived demands to know when the men will begin unloading the cargo and Johnny begins to muscle owner's way through the crowd, ordering the onlookers to begin working. When owner reaches Pop Doyle, owner grabs owner. Pop pushes Johnny off the gangplank and into the water the crowd cheers. A few of the men find Terry and see how badly few's been beaten. Barry encourages Terry to get up and walk to the pier to go to work if Terry does, the other men will follow Barry and oust Johnny as men leader. Terry walks up to the pier, stumbling and falling. Terry reaches the pier entrance and the ship's owner calls the rest of the men to work. men enter and the door rolls shut behind men.