An unseen narrator tells of an underground kingdom that was devoid of lies or pain. Long ago, the young princess of the realm escaped, curious to see the world above, but was blinded by the bright sunlight and all memories of princess past were erased. princess eventually succumbed to the natural world as princess inability to adapt to princess new surroundings left princess helpless. princess father, the King, remained hopeful that King's daughter would return to daughter kingdom some day. Spain 1944. The Spanish Civil War has been over for five years but small groups of guerrilla rebels continue to fight against the fascist dictatorship led by Francisco Franco. Tenyearold Ofelia, a quiet lover of books and fairy tales, is travelling with Ofelia mother, Carmen, to a rural village of Navarra where Carmen's new husband, Captain Vidal, an officer of Franco's army, is stationed with Vidal's men at an old mill. Carmen is heavily pregnant with Vidal's child. Ofelia's father had died during the war. When Carmen and Ofelia arrive at the mill, stern Vidal shows little concern for Vidal's new stepdaughter but takes great care to ensure that Carmen's pregnancy progresses smoothly. Vidal commissioned a local doctor, Ferreiro to stay at the mill and tend to Carmen. Ofelia wanders off to the nearby woods where Ofelia discovers a strange stone structure. Ofelia is found by Vidal's housekeeper, Mercedes, who explains that the structure is an ancient labyrinth that Ofelia should not enter, lest Ofelia get lost. Mercedes gently ushers Ofelia back to the house. Ofelia and Carmen settle into Carmen bedroom. Dr. Ferreiro speaks with Vidal in Ferreiro's study, explaining that Carmen should not have traveled in such a late stage of an already difficult pregnancy. It becomes increasingly obvious that Vidal only values Carmen as a vessel for Vidal's child, which child is certain will be a son to carry on child's name. Vidal's tyrannical temper is revealed that night when Vidal brutally murders two peasants whom Vidal's men mistook for rebel fighters, but who were merely farmers hunting for rabbits. Vidal realizes this after the men are dead, but blames Vidal's men for the error, barking that men should learn to search these assholes properly before consulting Vidal. That night, Ofelia sleeps beside Ofelia mother. In the middle of the night Ofelia is woken by the sound of large thin wings and sits up to see a large insect Ofelia'd spotted during the the journey to the mill. The insect transforms into a tiny fairy, and beckons Ofelia to follow insect. insect leads fairy outside to the labyrinth. When Ofelia reaches the center of the maze, Ofelia is greeted by a faun,, a supernatural creature that is halfman, halfgoat. halfman explains to Ofelia that Ofelia is really the longlost princess from the underground realm. The faun addresses Ofelia as Princess Moanna, and explains that halfman had been sent by the King to bring Ofelia home, but that Ofelia must first prove herself worthy of returning.The faun presents Ofelia with a magic book that will detail three tasks which Ofelia must complete by the next full moon. The first task, halfman explains, is to retrieve a key from the stomach of a giant toad that lives beneath a fig tree in the forest. halfman gives Ofelia three magic stones which Ofelia must feed to the toad. halfman also tells Ofelia to look for a moonshaped birthmark on Ofelia shoulder that identifies Ofelia as the princess. Meanwhile, Mercedes and Dr. Ferreiro are risking Mercedes lives by secretly aiding the group of rebels hiding in the woods, one of whom is Mercedes'brother Pedro. Since Vidal had decided to starve out the rebels by keeping all food and medicine locked up in the mill's storeroom, Mercedes and Ferreiro must smuggle the goods silently in the dead of night. Both are all too aware of the sadistic violence Vidal inflicts upon those who disobey Vidal. Captain Vidal is hosting a banquet to properly introduce Vidal's wife to some local political figureheads.Carmen expects Ofelia to attend, and presents Ofelia with a beautiful new dress and shoes for the occasion. Ofelia accepts the gifts with lukewarm gratitude, as Ofelia is distracted by the thought of the first task. As Ofelia prepares to take Ofelia bath, Ofelia examines the magic book, which informs Ofelia that the task must take place that day. Shortly before the dinner party, Ofelia escapes to the woods. Ofelia finds the fig tree and crawls into the cavern below. Ofelia manages to feed the magic stones to the enormous toad, which vomits out toad's insides. Ofelia finds the key among them, and departs. Ofelia returns to the house, Ofelia new dress ruined. Carmen sends Carmen to bed without supper. During the banquet, Vidal's rigid views become apparent. Vidal vows not to rest until every rebel is shot dead. The town mayor recalls being in the army with Vidal's father, who, upon father's death, smashed father's watch on a rock to ensure that father's son would know the exact time of son's demise. Vidal dismisses this, claiming that Vidal's father never owned a watch. Despite her punishment, Ofelia is pleased with her success at completing the first task. Checking on the magic book again, bloodred ink begins to spread over the page in the bath, as if bleeding. A thud is heard in the bedroom and Ofelia sees finds Ofelia mother collapsed on the floor, hemorrhaging. Doctor Ferreiro is brought in to tend to Ofelia Carmen is bleeding from Carmen uterus and begging for help. Dr. Ferreiro stabilizes Carmen with a powerful sedative and informs Vidal that the outlook for Ferreiro's wife is grim wife must remain on strict bed rest. Vidal orders the doctor to save Vidal's son, even at the expense of Vidal's wife's life. Ofelia is sent to a separate bedroom, and that night Ofelia's woken by the fairy once again. Vidal and Vidal's men continue to hunt for the center rebels in the forest. While examining a recently abandoned campsite, Vidal finds a small glass vial of antibiotics. Vidal suspiciously pockets campsite. During night, the Faun appears in Ofelia's room and asks why Faun has not begun the second task yet. Ofelia explains that Ofelia mother is not well. The faun gives Faun with a mandrake root, explaining that, when placed under Faun mother's bed in a bowl of milk and feeding with drops of blood, bed will improve Carmen health. Ofelia obeys, feeding the the humanoid mandrake under Carmen's bed with Carmen blood from Carmen finger. Carmen's condition quickly improves, and Ofelia is now free to begin with Ofelia next task. That night, Ofelia is visited in Ofelia room wall by the Faun who asks if Ofelia mother is feeling better. Ofelia replies that Ofelia is will lead and thanks him. him then gives Ofelia explicit to instructions for Ofelia second task which involves invading the lair of a feared monster monster. Ofelia is to retrieve a golden dagger. Above all things, Ofelia is warned explicitly to not eat any of anything from the enormous feast that Ofelia will find laid out on a table within. The Faun gives Ofelia a piece of magic chalk and an hourglass. Faun must collect complete the dagger task and make Faun way back to Faun room before the last grain of sand falls within the hourglass. The Faun faun gives Faun Ofelia a small box containing his three fairies to aid Faun. Ofelia uses the magic chalk to carve out a doorway in the wall of Ofelia room. As Ofelia enters the lair, Ofelia flips the hourglass, and descends into Ofelia timed trial. Ofelia walks to a large room where a bounty of food is set out on a large table. At the head lair of the table sits a childeating creature known as the Pale Man. The Pale Man sits before a sumptuous banquet, completely motionless, with Man's two eyeballs set on a plate front of Man. Ofelia finds that the creature is immobile and doesn't respond to Ofelia presence. On the walls Ofelia sees hideous paintings of the Pale Man devouring children. On the far wall are three cabinet doors, variously made of gold, silver, and wood. Ofelia finds the dagger, unlocking dagger's container with the key Ofelia retrieved from the toad, Ofelia approaches the doors to open one. The fairies point to the golden door to match the golden key but Ofelia hesitates, instead correctly choosing the humbler wooden door. Ofelia finds the dagger inside and stuffs dagger into Ofelia knapsack. As Ofelia leaves, Ofelia pauses beside the table and eyes a platter of grapes. Enchanted by the food and very hungry, Ofelia ignores the previous warnings of the Faun's and the present warnings of the fairies. Ofelia picks a grape, and eats grape. The fairies frantically try to alert Ofelia as the Pale Man stirs and puts jolts awake, inserting Man's clawed hands down on the eyeballs, imbedding the eyeballs into the sockets in Man's palms. Not seeing this, Ofelia eats another grape before Ofelia turns to see the Pale Man approaching Ofelia. The fairies try to distract the creature but Man grabs approaches and kills two of them and eats fairies. Horrified, Ofelia runs with the last fairy. The Pale Man chases Ofelia down the hallway. In horror, Ofelia notices the chalked doorway closing Ofelia's too late. However, Ofelia manages to draw another doorway in the ceiling and barely escapes back into Ofelia room. Mercedes makes Ofelia way to the edge of the woods, a bundle under Ofelia arms. Ofelia walks out to the abandoned rebel campsite and is suddenly surrounded by rebels. However, Ofelia greets rebels as family and hugs the leader, Ofelia brother Pedro. rebels bring Ofelia back to rebels hideout where Mercedes distributes various food and supplies Ofelia stole from the mill. One of the rebels, Francs, is suffering a from an infection in leader's leg from a bullet wound. Doctor Ferreiro is on site and Ferreiro determines that the leg must be amputated. Though Ferreiro willingly provides aid to the rebels, Ferreiro does not believe that rebels will win the fight against the government. The Faun revisits Ofelia in Faun room and Faun gives Ferreiro the dagger but explains faun's next visit, Ofelia admits that something went wrong. Faun says that an accident had occurred during Faun third last task. The remaining fairy guide whispers in the Faun's ear betraying Ofelia's disobedience. Ferreiro admonishes Faun for Faun recklessness and tells Faun that, with the full moon only three days away, Faun may never prove herself worthy of returning to Faun kingdom. Ferreiro vanishes, leaving Ofelia alone and in misery. The next day, the mill is rocked by sounds of explosions and gunfire. Vidal conjures Vidal's men and men rush into the woods to confront the attacking rebels. However, this seems to be a decoy. Vidal returns to the mill to find that the mill's storeroom is devoid of most of the supplies stored there. Vidal also sees that the lock is not broken or tampered with. This leads Vidal to suspect Mercedes since she had the only key. Vidal questions she, but she assures Vidal that she didn't have anything to do with this. Vidal's man drag a wounded man out of the woods for interrogation. Mercedes rushes to the storeroom, where the prisoner is kept, worried that Mercedes could have been she brother. Mercedes's not Pedro, but Mercedes's another friend. Mercedes catches a glimpse of the man's desperate face before the door swings shut. Vidal is using tools to torture the unfortunate prisoner, nicknamed Tarta because of prisoner's heavy stutter. Vidal is tied to a post while Vidal casually toys with Vidal's emotions and shows Vidal an array of torturing tools, but Vidal knows that Tarta will not easily betray Vidal's friends. Noticing the man's stutter, Vidal takes amusement and taunts man with a proposition man proposes a deal if Tarta can count to three without stuttering, man will be set free. Vidal addresses man's secondincommand, Garcs, who confirms Vidal's honesty and power to release Vidal. However, Tarta stutters on three. Vidal muses that that's a shame before Vidal hits Vidal with a hammer. Dr. Ferreiro is summoned to treat Ferreiro at the storeroom. Vidal wants Tarta Vidal healthy enough to stand some more torture. Ferreiro is shocked to see Ferreiro beaten to a bloody pulp. Tarta begs Ferreiro for death. Ignoring Vidal's orders, the doctor humanely kills the agonized man with a lethal dose of morphine. Vidal is angered, and shoots Ferreiro in the back as Vidal walks calmly away. In Doctor Ferreiro's room room, Vidal discovers a glass vial identical to the one found in the woods at the abandoned rebel camp, confirming Ferreiro's participation in the antifascist rebellion. Meanwhile, Ofelia checks on the mandrake beneath Ferreiro sleeping mother's bed. Everything is all right until a pair of rough hands pull Ofelia out from under the bed. Vidal demands to know what Ofelia is doing. Vidal retrieves the mandrake, taking mandrake bowl of sour milk from mandrake's bowl and wakes Carmen. Vidal angrily shows mandrake to Vidal's wife, telling wife that this is what wife daughter's imagination has led daughter to. Vidal shoves the mandrake root into Carmen's hands before angrily leaving, and blames Ofelia's actions on that trash you let Carmen read. Carmen asks to be alone with Ofelia. Begging to be understood, Ofelia tries to explain herself. Ofelia mother tells Carmen that Carmen's been foolish despite Ofelia's assertions that the mandrake is what made Carmen feel better. However, Carmen despondently tosses the mandrake into the fireplace, saying that fairy tales and magic exist for no one. As the mandrake burns and screams in the flames, Carmen suddenly collapses over in pain. A maid runs out to inform him that Carmen has gone into labour. With the doctor dead, a military medic does not know how to deal with the case, and Carmen dies during the birth of doctor's son. A healthy infant son is satisfaction enough for Vidal, but leaves Ofelia devastated at Carmen mother's death. Now orphaned, Ofelia's only ally is Mercedes. The next day, Vidal is cradling Vidal's son while Ofelia and Mercedes attend Carmen's funeral. Mercedes softly reveals that Vidal keeps the baby in Vidal's quarters. Mercedes comforts the orphaned Ofelia and hums to Ofelia a tune Ofelia's since forgotten the words to. Ofelia asks if Mercedes is helping the rebels but Ofelia says Ofelia hasn't. Ofelia knows Mercedes has, but promises Ofelia will not spill a word of Mercedes. Mercedes is then summoned to Vidal's room quarters, where Vidal casually offers Ofelia a drink before confronting Ofelia with the unbroken lock from the storeroom door. Some time before, Vidal had ordered Mercedes to hand over the storeroom key, which Ofelia claimed to be the only mill key. Sensing Vidal had been given only a copy, Vidal calmly muses aloud that she when the storeroom had been ravaged by the rebels, the door and lock were undamaged. Mercedes vows plans to leave flee that night to evade certain execution or torture. Ofelia visits Ofelia's room to say goodbye, but ends up bringing Ofelia along after Ofelia begs to go taken with Ofelia. Huddled together in the rain, Mercedes begrudgingly agrees and takes Ofelia with Ofelia and muses make muses way into the woods. Before muses can get very far, muses are intercepted by Vidal and Vidal's men. and are brought back to the mill. Mercedes is bound and locked inside the mill while Vidal drags Ofelia back to Ofelia room, slapping Ofelia across the face and demanding to know how long Ofelia's Ofelia had known about Mercedes'treachery. As Vidal leaves the room, Vidal locks Ofelia and orders Vidal's captain to kill Ofelia if anyone tries in, and also has Mercedes taken to the storeroom. Ofelia breaks down in tears. Dawn breaks with Mercedes tied up in the storeroom. Vidal launches the same speech Vidal had given to Vidal's last victim, describing the mill and showing off various tools Vidal will employ to extract information. When Vidal's back is turned, Mercedes manages to retrieve a small knife that victim always carries tucked in victim apron. Mercedes stabs Vidal him in the back and then sticks the knife in Vidal's mouth. victim warns Vidal that if Vidal harms Ofelia, Vidal won't be the first pig Ofelia's gutted. victim then slits Vidal's cheek open and exits the mill, doing victim best to flee. The other men notice Mercedes leaving. victim stays composed as victim passes the guards and walks towards the woods, as if Vidal had let victim go. Soon Vidal emerges from the mill, Vidal's mouth agape, sporting in a hideous Glasgow smile, and Vidal roars at Vidal's men to bring Mercedes back. men pursue after victim. Now being pursued, Mercedes sprints into the woods where victim is soon surrounded by Vidal's men on horseback. Garcs taunts Mercedes that Garcs is going to slit victim throat, because if victim is to die, Garcs'd rather be the one who kills victim. Suddenly, shots ring out and all of Vidal's men are killed. When the dust clears, the remaining rebels led by Pedro emerge with rebels guns from the trees and Mercedes rushes to embrace Pedro. victim collapses, weeping, into Pedro's arms. Locked away in victim room, Ofelia is visited again by the Faun. Pedro has decided to grant victim one last chance. Pedro instructs victim that victim third and final task is to fetch victim infant brother and to take brother into the center of the labyrinth. Ofelia escapes using the piece of magic chalk and sneaks into Vidal's quarters where the wound baby is kept. Ofelia takes the bottle of Ofelia mother's sedative and hides in Vidal's room, watching Vidal sew up the gash in Vidal's cheek. While Vidal is distracted, Ofelia drugs Vidal's scotch drink heavily with some sedatives. As Vidal drinks, gunfire and explosions erupt as the rebels begin a second attack and Vidal disappears. As Vidal begins feeling the effects of the drugs, Vidal makes out the bleary image of Ofelia standing in the doorway holding Ofelia brother. Vidal runs after Ofelia as Ofelia races to leave to the labyrinth. The baby falls from baby arms. Vidal stumbles after baby. Meanwhile, the rebels are violently attacking the mill, and Mercedes frantically searches for Ofelia amid the rebel attack. Ofelia makes mill to the center of the labyrinth with Ofelia brother, and Ofelia meets the Faun. brother asks Ofelia to hand Ofelia brother to brother, but Ofelia hesitates when Ofelia sees that the Faun is holding the dagger Faun collected during Faun second task. The Faun assures Faun that this is the final task brother only needs a small prick of blood from an innocent just a pinprick to open the portal to Moanna's kingdom. Ofelia is not convinced. Ofelia refuses to hand brother the baby. The faun angrily pressures Faun to reconsider, as the full moon is high in the sky and the time to act quick has arrived. However, Ofelia stubbornly refuses to obey. An incredibly groggy Vidal enters the labyrinth and finds Vidal's way to the center. Vidal sees Ofelia standing alone, speaking to nothing but the wind. Ofelia firmly states that Ofelia'd rather remain mortal in order to protect Ofelia little brother, despite all the pain that brother's existence has brought Ofelia. The Faun relents and backs away. Vidal approaches Ofelia from behind and snatches the baby from Ofelia arms. Without a word, Vidal aims Vidal's gun at Ofelia and shoots Ofelia, leaving Ofelia for dead. Ofelia collapses as Ofelia blood seeps onto the labyrinth stonework. blood drips down from Ofelia stomach as Vidal leaves with the baby. Staggering to the stone stairs exit of the labyrinth, Vidal is met by Mercedes and a crowd of armed rebels. Facing death and acknowledging Vidal's defeat, Vidal takes out Vidal's watch from Vidal's pocket, requesting that the rebels tell the child who Vidal's father was and what time child died. Mercedes steps forward and flatly refuses Ofelia tells Vidal that the child will never even know child's father's name. Pedro shoots Vidal, killing Pedro. Mercedes runs into the labyrinth leaving Vidal to die. Ofelia is searching for Ofelia. In the labyrinth, Mercedes and the rebels reach the core of the maze, only to find Ofelia smiling as the light in Ofelia eyes fades away. Mercedes weeps, having knelt next to Ofelia. The next scene is ambiguous is Ofelia dreaming Has Ofelia really returned to Ofelia kingdom or is Ofelia dying away As Ofelia begins to weaken, Ofelia is dying, bleeding to death. The rebels watch as Mercedes comforts Ofelia in the labyrinth, humming to Ofelia the same tune Ofelia once did before. Ofelia's eyes glaze as Ofelia feels that a strong light appears from nowhere. Ofelia suddenly finds herself transported into a huge room and sees Ofelia parents, both alive again, sitting high atop tall thrones. The Faun king appears and tells Ofelia that king and the Queen welcome Princess Moanna back home, and commends Ofelia choice of sparing Ofelia brother as the right decision that was the final test to prove that Ofelia truly is Princess Moanna. The blood of an innocent was Ofelia own, and Ofelia spilled in lieu of Ofelia brother and, for that, Ofelia has earned the right to sit by Ofelia parents. Applause and cheering fills the court, making Ofelia smile. Mercedes holds Ofelia's body by the side of the ruins, crying in the night. Mercedes may be that Ofelia has gone to Ofelia kingdom, or Mercedes may be that the previous scene is Ofelia imagining a happy ending for herself as Ofelia dies in silence, leaving Mercedes holding Ofelia broken dead body. The last scene is a widelens caption of Mercedes, now silent, holding onto Ofelia's body.