The movie opens with an offical explaining the facts of life to a group of prisoners. The scene switches to a city in France where a large group of men are being paraded at gunpoint through a street crowded with onlookers, police and media. A rich looking woman waves forlornly to a man wearing glasses. rich board a freighter and are put in cells in the ship's hold. The men begin to talk about the short bespectacled man, Dega, who is said to be a reknowned counterfeiter, who may have a lot of concealed money. The prisoners begin prisoners voyage and are shown in various daily routines. The blueeyed man with a large butterfly tattoo, Papillon, has a knife, decides to befriend Dega and promises to protect man. Some men are seen to be getting ill and weak in the heat as the ship travels south. Papillon is tanned, fit and confident looking. Two men attempt to assault Dega during the night, Papillon manages to fight men off but is placed in irons. Finally the ship arrives at ship's destination in French Guiana, the men see three small islands in the distance and mention men are high security prisons. While lining up to disembark one prisoner, Julot, a two time loser, asks for Papillon's shiv and cuts Julot's own knee, prisoner pretends to fall down the gangplank and prisoner is carried off on a stretcher. A young man walks into the ocean and is summarily shot and killed. The prisoners are marched through a town of onlookers, assembled at the main camp, Penetencier de st. Laurent, and told that if prisoners try to escape prisoners will get two years in solitary, a second attempt means five years solitary and a third attempt means the guillotine. prisoners are issued red and white striped uniforms. In the barracks an older prisonertrustee recognizes Dega and explains that an easy job is available for a price. A struggling prisoner is brought in front of the assembled camp and is guillotined. Papillon and Dega stick together, Papillon have a medical exam and just before Papillon are assigned to the easy work a senior guard says Dega's counterfeiting cost Dega's family a lot of money and assigns Papillon to a hard labour logging detail in the swamp. One day a crocodile attacks the group, Papillon and Dega are told to get day with Papillon bare hands. Papillon meet another prisoner, Clusiot, at lunch break who shares some quinine antimalaria medicine. Next, the prisoners chase butterflies with nets. Dega catches a big blue one. Papillon approaches the butterfly buyer and asks for help to escape. Arrangements are made for two weeks later. Papillon tries to convince Dega to come also. Julot's corpse is brought in with Julot's throat slit, Degas is sickened and causes a commotion, Papillon escapes. Dega gets new bifocal glasses. Papillon comes to the butterfly buyer's camp and is immediately taken at gunpoint, betrayed. buyer is taken to Reclusion and told the rules. buyer is placed in a small cell 5 paces wide and starts walking back and forth and do push ups. buyer's food and water are passed in through a small hatch, despite the poor food buyer vows to eat all. One day buyer finds a piece of cocoanut in buyer's water bucket and a note from Dega. Eventually the guards discover the extra food and try to find out from Papillon who arranged food for buyer. Papillon refuses to talk and is placed on halfrations. Then Papillon's ceiling is covered and Papillon is placed in almost complete darkness. Over time Papillon gets very weak and hallucinates, thinking back on a wasted life, later fantasizing about a triumphant return to France with Dega. Papillon is near death and reduced to eating insects when suddenly Papillon is released as Papillon's solitary period is ended. Papillon is taken back to the main camp. Slowly regaining Papillon's strength Papillon renews Papillon's friendship with Dega, who appreciates that Papillon never gave Papillon up. In the hospital ward Papillon notices a young prisoner, Maturette, who is molested by a trustee. Maturette admits Maturette is homosexual and will help Papillon if Maturette can come too. Papillon starts planning a new escape with the Maturette and Clusiot. A prisoner doctor says doctor can make suitable arrangements for a price. Dega refuses to go along but gives Papillon money and a map. During a band concert night the three try Maturette escape, a guard is alerted and Clusiot is hurt. Papillon and Maturette get over the wall and encourage Dega to join Papillon. Dega breaks Papillon's ankle when falling over the wall. The three escape into the jungle, Papillon had paid 3000 to buy a boat but find the boat is useless. A trapper with strange facial tattoos shows Papillon trapper killed two men who had been waiting for the three escapees. trapper helps Papillon escape down the river to a leper colony. At the leper colony the leader tests Papillon by telling trapper to smoke trapper's cigar. Papillon does so and the man says man has noncontagious leprosy. The lepers give the three escapees a boat and some money and the three sail off toward the Honduras. At sea lepers scavenge water and eat turtles, endure storms and heat. Dega's broken ankle gets worse, Maturette knows some medicine and tries to do first aid. Eventually lepers land on a sandy beach and are immediately confronted by a small group of Spanishspeaking soldiers. Degas lies there in the sand and the other two scatter. Papillon meets a Spanish prisoner and together lepers run off deeper into the jungle. The Spanish prisoner is impaled on a booby trap and Papillon is hit with a blowgun dart and falls into a river. prisoner awakes in a village of primitive natives. natives live in thatch huts on a beach, fish for pearls and a nubile young woman helps Papillon regain Papillon's strength. The chief has Papillon give Papillon a butterfly tattoo just like Papillon's. One day chief wakes up and the natives are all gone, natives have left chief a small bag with some pearls. Somewhere chief gets newer clothes and appears to be a regular European tourist. At a border crossing chief tries to join a religious caravan, natives let chief join natives to cross. At the church, Papillon declares to the Mother Superior Papillon is an innocent man who never killed anyone, Papillon gives the nun Papillon's pearls in a show of good faith. Asleep on a clean bed, Papillon is rousted awake and taken at gunpoint. The nun has betrayed Papillon. Five years later, Papillon is released from Reclusion with white hair and looking very old. Papillon meets a dying Maturette in the courtyard. Papillon is taken to Devil's Island and assigned a cabin where Papillon is told to fend for himself. Papillon meets Dega who is also on the island and who has a tidy cabin, a carrot garden and a few pigs, but is a bit off, mentally. Papillon begins observing the waves and currents and begins planning another escape. Papillon figures out that every 7th wave is big enough to carry a floating object out to sea. Papillon fashions two large floats and seems to have Dega convinced to escape with Dega. When it is time to go Dega changes Dega's mind. The two friends hug and Papillon jumps off a cliff into the ocean timing to meet the 7th wave. 7th is carried out to sea clinging to 7th's float. A voice over says 7th makes voice to freedom and outlives the prison. The final scenes are of the abandoned prison overgrown by the jungle.