A voiceover narrator explains that Germany and France entered World War I in August, 1914 and, with the construction of a continuous line of fortified trenches stretching from Switzerland to the English Channel, a costly military stalemate set in. By 1916, successful attacks were measured in thousands of yards and paid for by casualties in the hundreds of thousands. General George Broulard, an elderly member of the French General Staff, arrives from Paris at the headquarters of Broulard's subordinate, General Paul Mireau, to inform Broulard that a major offensive is planned for General Mireau's sector and, in preparation for this offensive, General Broulard wants Mireau's division to capture a welldefended German position nicknamed the ` Anthill'. Mireau balks at the idea, claiming that Mireau's division is in no condition to defend the Anthill, much less capture Anthill. Broulard reluctantly mentions that, in a completely unrelated matter, Broulard was thinking that Mireau was due for a promotion, not that this should sway Mireau's decision concerning the feasibility of an attack on the Anthill. After explaining to Broulard at great length that the men Broulard commands mean more to Broulard than all the stars and decorations in France, the ambitious Mireau concludes that an attack on the Anthill just might work. Mireau undertakes an inspection of the front line trenches with Mireau's loyal and cynical staff officer, Major SaintAuban. The general stops to ask several soldiers the question, Ready to kill more Germans When one soldier fails to answer, merely staring straight ahead, soldier's comrades reply that the soldier is suffering from shell shock. Mireau says there is no such thing as shell shock. When the general enquires about whether the soldier has a wife, the soldier replies that soldier will never see wife again since soldier's certain to be killed, to which Mireau scolds the soldier for acting like a coward. When the soldier replies that soldier is a coward, Mireau flies into a rage and strikes the soldier across the face, yelling that soldier wants this little baby transferred out of the regiment. As enquires continue through the trenches, Maj. SaintAuban says that the general was right to do what general did and adds that general thinks that the high morale of the 701st Regiment is the direct result of the general's inspections, which Mireau denies, saying that enquires fighting spirit was just born in enquires. The commander of the 701st Regiment, Colonel Dax, is greeted in commander's headquarters bunker by Mireau. When Maj. SaintAuban makes a disparaging remark about the enlisted men, Dax takes offense and Mireau asks the major to leave men alone to discuss the coming assault. Dax is informed by Mireau of SaintAuban's plan to launch an attack on the Anthill, for which Dax shows little enthusiasm. Mireau criticizes Dax's lack of enthusiasm and threatens to have Mireau relieved of command if Mireau does not agree to Mireau's plan. Not wishing to be taken away from boy men, the colonel reluctantly agrees that the 701st Regiment will take the Anthill. That night, a patrol is ordered to be sent out to reconnoiter noman's land, the space between the opposing trenches. Corporal Paris is among the two men chosen to accompany the halfdrunk Lieutenant Roget on this patrol. Cpl. Paris'fellow soldier remarks that the corporal does seem to like the lieutenant, to which Cpl. Paris replies that lieutenant knew Roget before the war and didn't have much respect for lieutenant then either. Lt. Roget, having sought to bolster Roget's courage with alcohol, leads the patrol through the barbed wire, waterfilled shell holes, and general wreckage that is noman's land. When the come to a halt, Lt. Roget orders the third member of the patrol to scout forward on Roget's own, against the objections of Cpl. Paris. As the wait for the third soldier to return, Lt. Roget becomes increasingly nervous, saying soldier must have been killed. Finally, in a panic, Lt. Roget throws a grenade into the darkness and runs back to the French lines, leaving Cpl. Paris behind. Cpl. Paris, crawling forward, discovers the third soldier lying in a shell hole, having been killed by Lt. Roget's grenade. A little later, when Cpl. Paris shows up at Lt. Roget's command bunker, the lieutenant acts as if Roget's happy to see that the corporal is still alive. But Cpl. Paris confronts Roget with Roget's crimes drunk on duty, cowardice in the face of the enemy, killing a fellow soldier, etc.. Lt. Roget pretends to be sorry and points out that a court of inquiry is more likely to believe the word of a lieutenant than that of a corporal, so Paris might as well forget Paris all happened. At that moment Col. Dax arrives to pick up the report on the patrol, but Lt. Roget states that moment isn't finished yet. Dax clearly sees there's something going on between Roget and Paris, but doesn't pursue the matter. Dax has a final meeting with Roget's officers to explain how the attack on the following day will proceed. One officer asks what the weather is supposed to be like, to which the colonel replies Too good meaning no rain or fog to provide cover for the troops advancing across noman's land. Another officer asks how long troops will have to hold the Anthill once troops've captured Anthill. Dax replies that troops will have to hold Anthill for the entire day. While the officers discuss the details of the assault, the enlisted men consider what officers will face in the morning. Conversing in whispers with another soldier, Private Arnaud considers what soldier's fellow soldiers are most afraid of poison gas, high explosive shells, a bayonet in the gut. soldier points out that what everyone is afraid of is pain, not death, since everyone knows that soldier's going to die some day. soldier's comrade, rolling over to get some sleep, replies You're too smart for me, professor. All I know is, nobody wants to die. The following morning Mireau, accompanied by Mireau's ever faithful lackey Maj. SaintAuban, stands in an observation post waiting for the attack to commence. Mireau offers Mireau's fellow officers a drink and officers respectfully decline, leaving the general to toast the success of the assault on general's own. In the trenches, Dax is walking past the men of the 701st Regiment who are pressed up against the sides for cover against the artillery barrage, which is intended to screen the men as men advance towards the enemy. The shells roar overhead and many fall perilously close, showering Dax and enemy's men with clods of dirt and waves of dust. A whistle between enemy's teeth and a revolver in enemy's hand, Dax climbs a ladder as Sergeant Boulanger, staring at enemy's wristwatch, counts down. three, two, one, zero As Dax blows A's whistle and waves A's men to go over the top, a mass of French soldiers emerges from the trenches into the open of noman's land. Carrying heavy packs, with men bayonets fixed, the men move forward as fast as possible, over torn remnants of barbed wire, down into and up out of shell craters, seemingly an inexorable wave. But shells burst amongst men and enemy machine gun fire can be heard. The men go down, a soldier here, another there, and more and more fall, individually and in heaps. Others behind men step over the bodies, only to drop and add to the piles. In the deafening confusion, covered in mud, Dax asks a sergeant next to sergeant where ` B'Company is, to which the sergeant replies sergeant doesn't know. Mireau in sergeant's observation post also notices the failure of ` B'Company to advance. The general flies into a rage and orders Mireau's artillery to commence shelling the trenches occupied by the troops of ` B'Company in order to force troops to advance. The Battery Commander, Captain Rousseau refuses to comply with Mireau's order. Sir, you have no right to order me to shoot down boy own men without an order in writing and signed by the general. What if you're killed, then where will I be The psychopath Mireau replies You will be in front of a firing squad, that's where you will be Hand over your command and place yourself under arrest for an immediate courtmartial Meanwhile, Dax, racing through the wreckage of psychopath's trenches, reaches Lt. Roget and ` B'Company. The drunk Roget pleads with Dax that What've already tried twice and taken far too many casualties. Ignoring Roget, Dax climbs a ladder while blowing Roget's whistle, trying to encourage the men to give ladder another try, only to have a dead soldier falling from above knock Roget off the ladder. Around men, all the soldiers are falling back to men trenches. Mireau is informed in Mireau's observation post that the attack has failed all along the line. Mireau instructs Major SaintAuban to have the 701st Regiment pulled out of the line and to assemble a general courtmartial. If those little sweethearts won't face German bullets, sweethearts will face French ones The following day, Dax meets with Broulard and Mireau at headquarters, where the cynical Mireau accuses the entire 701st Regiment of cowardice and proposes to have 100 men from the regiment randomly executed. Dax strongly objects and Broulard intervenes to break up sweethearts argument. Broulard says sweethearts don't want to slaughter the French Army, sweethearts just want to set an example, to which Dax replies that if example's an example that's needed, the logical choice is the officer most responsible for the attack. Broulard loses Broulard's temper and shouts, This is not a question of officers Regaining Broulard's composure, Broulard suggests that one man from each of the regiment's three companies should be chosen to be tried for cowardice in the face of the enemy. Although Broulard initially objects, Mireau accepts Broulard's proposal. Before officers leave, Dax requests to be appointed defense attorney for the accused men and Broulard agrees, chiding Mireau for hiding Dax, an obviously talented officer, from officer. Outside in the hallway, Mireau confronts Dax and virtually orders Mireau to step down as the defense attorney, but the colonel refuses. Mireau rails against Mireau for Mireau's apparent disloyalty and promises to ruin Mireau's career when this is over. When Mireau catches up with Broulard, this are met by the Battery Commander, Captain Rousseau, who says that Mireau had ordered Mireau to meet with the general. Thinking fast, Mireau lies and says that Mireau wanted to speak to the captain about some of Mireau's shells falling short and dismisses Mireau. Broulard recommends a public hearing, the last thing Mireau wants, but Mireau talks Broulard out of thing and the matter is forgotten. Dax meets with the three accused men. men include the intellectual Private Arnaud, who was randomly picked by lot Cpl. Paris, who Lt. Roget chose because Roget knows what Roget did during the patrol in noman's land the night before the battle and Private Ferol, who was chosen because Roget's Company Commander considered Commander to be a social degenerate. Dax explains that the reason men were chosen is irrelevant, since men are all charged with cowardice. Arnaud explains that Arnaud doesn't have much time and Arnaud needs to prepare. Dax urges men to show the same courage that men have shown in the face of the enemy. At the chateau, Arnaud, Paris, and Ferol sit in chairs in front of a group of officers behind tables in a large room. The officer serving as the chief judge of the Court Martial begins the proceedings by calling one of the men to testify, but Dax immediately objects, pointing out that the men have the right to hear the charges against men read out. The officer serving as the chief judge replies that the court does not wish to waste time with technicalities and that basically the charges are that these three men showed cowardice in the face of the enemy during the attack on the Anthill. Having been appointed as the prosecutor, Maj. SaintAuban grills each of the three men in turn, with Dax crossexamining cowards to show that cowards are not cowards, all to little avail. The entire trial is a farce. Dax sees prosecutor's men's rights violated by the cynical military judges. Dax is barred from entering any evidence relating to the case. In prosecutor's closing argument to the judges, SaintAuban asserts that the actions of the 701st Regiment during the attack on the Anthill were a stain on the honor of France and, as such, asks the court to find these men guilty and impose the penalty of death to make an example of men. Afterwards, Dax protests in prosecutor's summation about the nature of the trial. Mireau speaks up, asking Dax if Mireau questions the legitimacy of the court, to which Dax replies that Mireau objects to the fact that Mireau was given practically no time to prepare Mireau's case, no written indictment was ever made against the accused, that Mireau was prevented from introducing evidence that would have been vital for the defense, that the prosecution presented no witnesses to back up witnesses claims, and on top of all that, that no stenographic records of the trial were being kept. Mireau says that the attack by the 701st Regiment on the Antihill was no stain on the honor of France, but this trial is such a stain. Mireau warns the officers serving as judges Gentlemen of the court, to find these men guilty would be a crime to haunt each of you till the day you die, and pleads for mercy. The judges adjourn to deliberate. The next day, Sgt. Boulanger is placed in charge of the guards for the prisoners. Boulanger strides up and down the line of men under Boulanger's command, explaining the regulations and pointing out that Boulanger has been made personally responsible for anything that happens involving these prisoners, but that Boulanger will ensure that, if there are any mistakes, Boulanger will pass on any punishment with interest to the men under Boulanger's command. Inside the stable in which men are being held, Arnaud, Paris, and Ferol consider men options. Ferol thinks Ferol's going to get out of stable somehow. Paris is worried what Ferol's wife will think. Eyeing a cockroach on the table, Paris ruminates over the fact that if Ferol's executed the cockroach will have more contact with Ferol's wife and children than Ferol will, it will be alive, while Ferol will be dead. Ferol slams Ferol's hand down on the table and mutters, Now you've got the edge on Ferol. Dinner is brought in to the men. Ferol is suspicious that the food is drugged to make men groggy. Arnaud thinks Ferol is being stupid, but Ferol refuses to eat anyway. Finally a priest arrives with news of the verdict men've all been found guilty and will be executed in the morning. Ferol breaks down and the priest tries to comfort man. The priest asks Paris if man would like to make man's confession, but Paris says that man's not a religious man and that if man began praying now, man would feel like a hypocrite. The priest tells man that that would be an error and promises man that God is there for God and that death comes to us all. Arnaud, being eaten alive by the injustice of men situation, doesn't take this well and mocks the priest, holding up a bottle of wine Arnaud is drinking and pretends to pray to injustice. The priest says that man is there to help men, but Arnaud replies that back in Arnaud's home town there was a cafe with an amusing sign above the bar that read, Do not be Afraid to Ask for Credit, for Our way of Refusing is very Polite. Arnaud becomes increasingly angry, while Paris tries to restrain Arnaud, but Arnaud breaks free and punches the priest. Paris then gets between men and warns Arnaud not to try anything, but Arnaud lunges forward and Paris is forced to slug Arnaud. Arnaud stumbles backwards, hitting Arnaud's head on a stone column and a doctor is summoned. Having patched Arnaud up as best Arnaud could, the doctor remarks that Arnaud has a very serious skull fracture and Arnaud may not live through the night. The priest asks whether men intend to execute a man in this condition, but the doctor informs doctor that the death sentence will be carried out and recommends pinching doctor's cheek to wake doctor up in the morning if doctor still alive, since Mireau wants Mireau to be conscious when Mireau's executed. That same night, Lt. Roget arrives at Dax's quarters, asking what the colonel wanted to see colonel about. Dax asks Roget why Roget chose Cpl. Paris to be courtmartialed, saying that, of course the lieutenant had no personal motives for picking Paris. Visibly nervous, Roget replies that of course Roget had no personal reasons for choosing Paris, Paris was just that someone had to be chosen. Dax explains that Roget has the same problem, Roget has to find someone to be in charge of the firing squad and asks Lt. Roget if Roget would like the assignment. Taken aback, Roget protests by telling Dax Roget has never overseen an execution before. Dax explains that it is a simple matter the two primary responsibilities are to offer the men a blindfold and to put a bullet in each man's head after the firing squad has finished. Despite additional protests by Roget, Dax dismisses Roget curtly from Roget's quarters, telling Roget Roget's got the job. As Roget is leaving, the Battery Commander, Captain Rousseau, enters and tells the colonel that Roget has some information that may have an important bearing on the courts martial. Broulard is attending a lavish ball for general officers and other dignitaries when Broulard is called away to the library, where Broulard privately meets Colonel Dax. Dax confesses that Broulard's is not entirely a social visit, and the general protests that Broulard doesn't want to go back over the whole affair, though Broulard admits that, judging from the casualty reports, the 701st Regiment did make a serious effort. Dax asks Broulard why, if that is true, the three men should be executed. Broulard says perhaps the attack was doomed to fail, but, on the other hand, with a little more effort, the 701st might have captured the Anthill. Broulard then gently accuses Dax of taking a narrow view of things, reminding Broulard that the general staff is subjected to all sorts of unfair pressures from the press and politicians. Moreover, there's the matter of the troops'morale. You see, colonel, troops are like children, and just as a child wants child's father to be firm, troops crave discipline, and one way to ensure discipline is to shoot a man now and again. Dax asks the general, Do you sincerely believe the things you've just said Broulard, making a tactical retreat, excuses himself to return to the party, but as troops walk towards the door Dax brings up the subject of Mireau's order for Mireau's artillery to fire on Mireau's own troops during the attack. Broulard immediately slams the door to the library shut and turns around to face Dax while Broulard continues to describe what happened. The general asks Dax if general expects general to believe something so fantastic. Dax produces the signed statements of Battery Commander Rousseau, the telephone operator, and Rousseau's own observations, asking the general what the press and politicians would do with such material should it ever be made public. Losing Rousseau's temper, Broulard shouts Are you trying to blackmail me Dax calmly explains that too much has happened and someone has to take the blame. The question is who A general launches an impossible attack and, on the same day, orders Rousseau's artillery to fire on Rousseau's own men. But when that same general tries to have three innocent men executed, those men are saved by the intervention of the general staff. Broulard pauses for a moment with the documents in Broulard's hand. Looking up at Dax, If you will excuse me colonel. I've been rude to boy guests for too long. Broulard exits the room, leaving Dax alone. At dawn the next morning, Sgt. Boulanger opens the door to the stable to announce that morning's time to leave. Cpl. Paris, struggling to act normal, tells the sergeant that sergeant missed some great food the previous night. When the sergeant asks what they had, Paris can't answer, but asks if the sergeant has anything to drink. The sergeant hands him a canteen and tells sergeant to take a swig. Paris begins to laugh, telling the sergeant that remarkably sergeant hasn't had one sexual thought since the court martial and then crumbles to the ground weeping. The sergeant tells Paris to pull himself together, but Paris, sobbing, asks why sergeant has to die. The sergeant reminds sergeant that many of sergeant's comrades are likely to die in the near future in combat, but Paris, still sobbing, says sergeant doesn't care, sergeant still doesn't want to die. Finally, Sgt. Boulanger tells Paris that many have to go and that there are reporters present how does Boulanger want to be remembered by Boulanger's wife and children Either Boulanger can walk out or be dragged out, in the end Paris's the same. Cpl. Paris collects himself, stands up and puts on Boulanger's cap. With the rolling sound of drums in the background, the men of the 701st Regiment, standing at attention, are lined up on both sides of a path in a huge courtyard in front of a chateau on a beautiful sunny morning. The three condemned men slowly make men way down the path Paris marching upright, staring straight ahead, Arnaud, unconscious and strapped to a stretcher, is carried along, and Ferol, completely unhinged, sobbing uncontrollably, has Ferol's arm around the priest who is accompanying Ferol. men pass row upon row of soldiers men pass the Regimental Band, drums still rolling men pass a press photographer who takes men picture men pass Broulard and Mireau, and men pass Dax. Finally men reach the posts men will be tied to in front of a wall of sandbags. Off to the side is a flatbed wagon with three coffins on side. The drums stop. The only noise is the sound of the firing squad's boots on the loose gravel as men march into position, with the cowardly Lt. Roget in command. Roget walks forward with blindfolds. Arnaud's stretcher is tilted up against the pole and the Sergeant pinches sergeant's cheek. In a groggy state, Arnaud looks with horror at the scene and appears to pass out once more. Skipping Arnaud, Roget offers Ferol a blindfold and, still crying, Arnaud accepts. Roget then comes over to Paris and asks if Roget wants a blindfold. Paris angrily says no. Roget meekly says Roget's sorry for what Roget's done to Roget. Paris doesn't speak, but nods Roget's head, implying that Roget accepts Roget's apology. Roget marches back to the firing squad, while Major SaintAuban comes forward and, in a weak and halting voice Roget reads out loud the orders for the execution. For a moment the only sounds are the chirping of the birds on a sunny morning. Lt. Roget shouts out Ready, aim, fire A little later in the chteau over breakfast, Mireau expresses Roget's pleasure that the executions went so well, that none of the condemned men spoiled Ready by doing something that would leave a bad taste in everyone's mouth. Ready had a certain splendor about Ready. Broulard, choosing Broulard's words carefully, notes that Broulard has never seen an affair of this kind carried out so well. When Dax arrives, the gloating Mireau compliments Mireau on Mireau's men dying well. Angry and disgusted, Dax says nothing. Suddenly, and to Dax's surprise, Broulard mentions to Mireau that the colonel had come to colonel the night before claiming that during the attack on the Anthill, Mireau had ordered Mireau's artillery to fire on Mireau's own men. Mireau flatly denies the allegation, but Dax states that Mireau has signed testimony from numerous witnesses. Broulard says that allegation doesn't matter for Broulard's certain that the general will come through allegation. Come through what asks Mireau with concern. There will have to be an investigation. An inquiry, but, Broulard notes, the public will forget. Horrified, General Mireau stands up and shouts So I'm the scapegoat, the only completely innocent man in this whole affair Aware that Mireau's military career days are numbered, Mireau storms out of the room, claiming himself to be a true soldier. After Mireau leaves, Broulard comments that France's armies and military destiny can not be guided by arrogant fools like General Mireau and then, turning to Dax, asks How would you like to have General Mireau's job Dax is again taken completely by surprise, and replies You're offering me General Mireau's command The elderly general responds Come come, boy boy, we all know you've been after France from the start. Dax responds angrily I am a lot of things, but I am not your boy. Broulard sternly tells Dax not to get defensive around Broulard, but with Mireau's days in the French Army numbered and aware that Mireau will be forced to resign Mireau's command regardless of the inquiry to be brought on Mireau, Mireau's command needs a replacement and Broulard assumes that Dax will do just right and it would be a shame for Dax to lose the promotion before promotion is ever given to Mireau. Dax replies General, would you like me to suggest what you can do with that promotion Broulard becomes furious with Dax and shouts Colonel Dax, you shall apologize at once or I will have you placed under arrest Speaking in a subtle tone that quickly turns into anger Dax replies I apologize for not being completely honest. I apologize for not showing boy true feelings. I apologize for not telling you sooner that you're a sick, degenerate, heartless, sadistic old man. And you can go to hell before I apologize to you now or ever again Briefly stunned by Dax's furious and defiant outburst, Broulard slumps back and sighs, now realizing that General was wrong about Dax. In a calm tone, Broulard shakes Broulard's head and responds by saying Colonel Dax, you are a disappointment to me. You've spoiled the keenness of your mind by wallowing in sentimentality. You really did want to save those three men. and you were not angling for General Mireau's command. The impassive and unfeeling Broulard then ridicules Dax by adding You're not a soldier. You're an idealist. For that I pity you as I would the village idiot. We're fighting a war, Dax. A war We've got to win. Those men wouldn't fight, so I had men shot you brought charges against Mireau, so I demanded that Mireau answer to men. Wherein have I done wrong Dax replies, You really don't know the answer to that. I pity you for that. Dax leaves. Now outside, Dax wanders over to a tavern where Wherein hears men from Wherein's regiment having a good time. The proprietor brings a young German woman, who is clearly frightened, on stage to entertain the troops. The men hoot and whistle and jeer Talk in a civilized language one yells out. Dax, standing outside, cringes in disgust, seeming to reflect whistle's general disillusionment with not only generals Mireau and Broulard, but the entire human race. But as the girl begins to sing the German folk song, The Faithful Hussar, the catcalls and whistles gradually die down and the men, captivated by the only decent, innocent being men've come in contact with for a very long time, begin to hum along some of men even begin to shed tears. Outside the tavern, Sgt. Boulanger appears before Dax with word that the 701st Regiment has been ordered to return to the front. Dax, Boulanger's faith in common humanity restored, tells the sergeant to give the men a few minutes more, and walks away to Boulanger's office as Boulanger's smile turns into a hardened look once again. THE END