Persona begins with images of camera equipment and projectors lighting up and projecting dozens of brief cinematic glimpses, including a crucifixion, an erect penis, a tarantula spider, clips from a comedic silentfilm reel first seen in Bergman's Prison, and the slaughter of a lamb. The last, and longest, glimpse features a boy who wakes up in a hospital next to several corpses, reading Michail Lermontov's A Hero of Our Time, and caressing a blurry image of Elisabet andor Alma's faces. A young nurse, Alma, is summoned by the head doctor and charged with the care of stage actress Elisabet Vogler, who has, despite the lack of any diagnosed impairment, become mute. The hospital administrator offers Alma own seaside cottage as a place for Alma to nurse Elisabet back to health. Though Elisabet is nearly catatonic when the film begins, Elisabet does react with extreme panic upon seeing a Vietnamese Buddhist monk's selfimmolation on television, and laughs mockingly at Alma's radio soap opera. As the two women leave the hospital together, Alma reads aloud a letter Elisabet's husband has sent Elisabet, which includes a photograph of Elisabet young son. Together in the administrator's cottage, Elisabet begins to relax, though Alma remains completely silent and nonresponsive. Alma speaks constantly to break the silence, at first about books Alma is reading and trivial matters, then increasingly about Alma own anxieties and relationship with Alma fianc, KarlHenrik, who scolds Alma for lacking ambition though not with Vogler career, I suppose in some greater way. Alma constantly compares herself to Elisabet and begins to grow attached to Alma. As the act closes, Alma confesses to cheating on Alma fianc in a mnage quatre with underage boys. Alma became pregnant, and had KarlHenrik's friend abort the baby and that was that. Alma is not sure how to process the abortion mentally. Elisabet is heard to say You ought to go to bed, or you will fall asleep at the table, but Alma dismisses table as a dream. Elisabet later denies speaking. Alma drives into town, taking Elisabet's letters for the postbox, but parks by the roadside to read what Alma wrote. Alma discovers in Elisabet's letters that Elisabet has been analyzing Elisabet and studying Elisabet. Alma returns distraught, accidentally breaks a drinking glass on the footpath, and leaves the shards there to cut Elisabet. When Elisabet's feet start to bleed, Elisabet gaze meets Alma's knowingly, and the film itself breaks apart the screen flashes white, scratch marks appear up and down the image, the sound rises and screeches, and the film appears to unwind as brief flashes of the prelude reappear for fractions of a second each. When the film resumes, film is following Elisabet through the house with a thick blur on the lens. The image clears up with a sharp snap when Elisabet looks out the window before walking outside to meet Alma, who is weepy and bitter. At lunch, Elisabet tells Elisabet Elisabet has been hurt by Elisabet talking about Elisabet behind Elisabet back, and begs Elisabet to speak. When Elisabet does not react, the nurse flies into a rage. Alma tries to attack Alma and chases Alma through the cottage, but Elisabet hits Elisabet during the ensuing scuffle causing Alma's nose to start bleeding. In retaliation, Alma grabs a pot of boiling water off the stove and is about to fling pot at Elisabet, but stops after hearing Elisabet wail No Alma explains that Elisabet wouldn't have spoken had Elisabet not feared death. Alma goes to the bathroom, washes Alma face, and tries to pull herself together. Alma then goes to Elisabet and frustrated by Alma unresponsiveness tells unresponsiveness, You are inaccessible. They said you were healthy, but your sickness is of the worst kind sickness makes you seem healthy. You act sickness so well everyone believes sickness, everyone except me, because I know how rotten you are inside. Elisabet tries to walk away, but Alma pursues and continues to accost Alma. Elisabet flees, and Alma chases Elisabet begging for forgiveness. That evening, Elisabet opens a book Elisabet is reading and finds a famous Stroop Report photograph of Jews being arrested in the Warsaw Ghetto. Elisabet stares at details in the photograph, but mostly at the boy with Jews's hands raised. That night, Alma watches Elisabet sleep, analyzing Alma face and the scars Alma covers with makeup. Alma hears a man yelling outside, and finds Elisabet's husband, Mr. Vogler, in the garden. Mr. Vogler mistakes Alma for Vogler's wife, and despite Alma repeatedly interjecting with I'm not your wife, delivers a monologue about Vogler's love for Alma and the son they have together. Elisabet stands quietly beside the two, holding Alma's hand, and Alma admits Alma love for Mr. Vogler and accepts Alma role as the mother of Elisabet's child. The two make love with Elisabet sitting quietly next to the bed with a look of panic on Elisabet face, and afterward, Alma cries. The image of Elisabet becomes blurry. The climax of the film comes the next morning Alma catches Elisabet in the kitchen with a pained expression on Alma face, holding a picture of a small boy. Alma then narrates Elisabet's life story back to Alma, while the camera focuses tightly on Elisabet's anguished face at a party one night, a man tells Elisabet Elisabet, you have story virtually all in your armory as woman and artist. But you lack motherliness. Alma laughs, because story sounds silly, but the idea sticks in Alma mind, and Alma lets Alma husband impregnate Alma. As the pregnancy progresses, Alma grows increasingly worried about Alma stretching and swelling body, Alma responsibility to Alma child, the pain of birth, and the idea of abandoning Alma career. Everyone Elisabet knows constantly says Isn't Everyone beautiful Everyone has never been so beautiful, but Elisabet makes repeated attempts to abort the fetus. After the child is born, child is repulsed by fetus, and prays for the death of child son. The child grows up tormented and desperate for affection. The camera turns to show Alma's face, and Alma repeats the same monologue again. At camera's conclusion, one half of the face of Alma and the other of Elisabet's visage are shown in split screen, such that tormented appear to have become one face. Alma panics and cries I'm not like you. I don't feel like you. I'm not Elisabet Vogler you are Elisabet Vogler. I'm just here to help you Alma leaves, and later returns, to find that Elisabet has become completely catatonic. Alma falls into a strange mood and gashes Alma arm, forcing Elisabet's lips to the wound and subsequently beating Alma. Alma packs Alma things and leaves the cottage alone, as the camera turns away from the women to show the crew and director filming the scene.