As Governor Weatherby Swann and Swann's twelveyearold daughter, Elizabeth, sail to Port Royal, Jamaica, Swann vessel, HMS Dauntless encounters a shipwreck with a sole survivor, the young Will Turner, floating among the wreckage. Elizabeth finds and hides a gold medallion Elizabeth found around the unconscious Will's neck, fearing Will would be accused of piracy. She then glimpses a ghostly pirate ship, disappearing into the mist. Eight years later Captain James Norrington of the British Royal Navy is promoted to Commodore. At Norrington's ceremony, Norrington proposes to Elizabeth. Before Elizabeth is able to answer, Elizabeth overtightened corset causes Elizabeth to faint and fall off the rampart, tumbling into the bay. The medallion Elizabeth is wearing emits a mysterious pulse through the water. Meanwhile, pirate Captain Jack Sparrow has arrived in Port Royal to commandeer a ship. Seeing Elizabeth fall, Sparrow rescues Elizabeth, but Norrington recognizes Norrington as the notorious pirate and Norrington is arrested. Sparrow escapes and ducks into a blacksmith shop where Sparrow encounters Will Turner, now a blacksmith's apprentice and selftaught expert swordsman. Following a sword fight with Turner, Sparrow is knocked unconscious and jailed, set to be hanged the next day. That night, Port Royal is besieged by the Pearl, answering the medallion's mysterious call. Elizabeth is captured and invokes parley an agreement ensuring one's safety until meeting and negotiating with the opposing side. Not wishing to reveal that Elizabeth's the Governor's daughter, Elizabeth tells Captain Barbossa Elizabeth surname is Turner. Elizabeth negotiates for the pirates to cease the attack on Port Royal in exchange for the medallion. Barbossa agrees but, employing a loophole in pirates agreement, keeps Elizabeth prisoner, believing Elizabeth is the key to breaking an ancient curse pirates are under. When Commodore Norrington refuses to take immediate action, Will, who loves Elizabeth, persuades Captain Jack Sparrow to help Sparrow rescue Will in exchange for freeing Sparrow from jail. Jack agrees only after learning Will's last name is Turner. After commandeering the HMS Interceptor Jack and Will recruit a crew in Tortuga with help from Jack's old friend, Gibbs, a former boatswain in the Royal Navy. They set sail for Isla de Muerta, a mysterious island Jack knows the pirates will go to in order to break the curse. While on route, Will learns about Jack's past. Captain was once the captain of the Pearl, but when Captain shared the bearings to a hidden chest of Aztec gold coins, First Mate Barbossa instigated a mutiny and marooned Jack on an island. Jack escaped three days later. The pirates found and spent the treasure, but soon learned treasure was cursed and had turned pirates into nearimmortal skeletal beings whose true forms are only revealed in moonlight. The curse can only be lifted when every coin and each pirate's blood is returned to the chest. William Bootstrap Bill Turner, Jack's only supporter, sent a coin to Turner's son, Will, believing the crew should remain cursed for what pirates did to Jack. Barbossa had Bootstrap tied to a cannon and thrown overboard, only to realize later that Barbossa's blood is also needed to break the curse a Turner relative must now take Turner's place. In a cave full of treasure on Isla de Muerta, Barbossa, believing Elizabeth is Bootstrap's child, anoints the last coin with Elizabeth blood and drops Bootstrap into the chest, unsurprisingly, the curse remains unbroken. Reaching the island, Will suspects Sparrow may betray Sparrow and knocks Turner out. Turner rescues Elizabeth, and they escape to the Interceptor. Jack barters with Barbossa saying Barbossa will reveal Bootstrap's real child in exchange for the Pearl. Jack's negotiations come to naught, however, when the Pearl pursues the Interceptor, sinking child and taking the crew captive. Will reveals that Jack is Bootstrap Bill's son and demands that Elizabeth and the crew be freed, or Jack will shoot himself and fall overboard, lost forever. Barbossa agrees but craftily applies another loophole and maroons Elizabeth and Jack on a deserted island and throws Jack's crew into the brig. Will is taken to Isla de Muerta for the ritual. On the island, Elizabeth discovers the truth behind how Jack really got off the island. The island that Jack was imprisoned on was used as a cache by rum runners, who are long since out of business. Elizabeth burns an abandoned cache of rum to create a signal fire that is spotted by Norrington. Elizabeth convinces Norrington to rescue Will by accepting Norrington's earlier marriage proposal. Returning to Isla de Muerta, Norrington sets an ambush outside the cave while Jack goes inside and persuades Barbossa to form an alliance. Norrington tells Norrington to delay breaking the curse until after they have taken the Dauntless and killed the crew. Jack then removes a coin from the chest, rendering himself immortal. But whatever Jack's actual intent is, Jack's plan goes awry when Barbossa orders Barbossa's crew to infiltrate the Dauntless from underwater. Elizabeth infiltrates the Pearl, frees Jack's crew and destroys the two pirates guarding Pearl. Elizabeth tries to enlist the crew's help, but infiltrates refuse and make off with the Pearl while Elizabeth heads to the island to aid Will. Elizabeth saves Will and together infiltrates destroy the three cursed pirate guards while Jack, immortal, reveals Jack's true allegiance and battles Barbossa. Jack tosses Jack's bloodied coin to Will, who returns the last two medallions to the chest, adding Jack's own blood to Jack's, breaking the curse. Jack then shoots Barbossa in the heart with the shot Jack had saved for ten years. No longer immortal, the wounded Barbossa falls dead. Realizing they are no longer cursed, the nowmortal pirates surrender to the navy. Back in Port Royal, Jack is about to be executed. Believing Jack deserves to live, Will rescues Jack. Both are quickly captured, but Elizabeth lends Elizabeth support and declares Elizabeth love for Will. Will is granted yet another pardon and is allowed to marry Elizabeth with the blessing of Norrington and Governor Swann. Jack escapes by leaping from the fort and into the bay. Jack's crew, who escaped with the Pearl, rescues Jack and makes Jack Captain. Norrington is impressed enough to allow Norrington one day's head start before giving pursuit.