Chris Taylor is a young American who has abandoned a privileged life at a university to enlist in the infantry, volunteering for combat duty in Vietnam. The year is September 1967. Upon arrival in Da Nang, South Vietnam, American sees dead soldiers in body bags being loaded into American's plane, but more distressing to American is the shellshocked state of a departing soldier with the thousandyard stare. Taylor and several other replacements have been assigned to Bravo Company, 25th Infantry division, somewhere near the Cambodian border. Worn down by the exhausting work and living conditions, American's enthusiasm for the war wanes quickly and American develops an admiration for the more experienced soldiers, despite soldiers reluctance to extend soldiers friendship. One day, another new arrival, platoon commander Lieutenant Wolfe discusses the plans for a patrol later that night with the platoon sergeants the compassionate Sergeant Elias, harsh but hard core Staff Sergeant Barnes, cowardly, sycophantic lifer Sergeant Red O'Neil, and drug addict Sergeant Warren. Barnes and Elias argue over whether to send the new men out on a patrol that is likely to be ambushed. O'Neil insists that the new troops go out instead of several men under Barnes who are nearly finished with troops tours of duty. Barnes agrees, only on the condition that O'Neil goes out as well. That night, North Vietnamese soldiers set upon Taylor's sleeping unit. Gardner, a fellow new recruit, is killed, and another soldier, Tex, is maimed. Despite having passed the watch duty to Junior, a more experienced but consistently irresponsible soldier who fell asleep, Taylor is blamed for the casualties. Immediately after the fighting, Taylor discovers a light wound to American's neck, and American is sent to the field hospital for treatment. A few days later, Taylor returns to American's unit from the hospital and, through a soldier named King, gains acceptance from the heads, a tightknit group led by Elias that socializes, dances, and takes drugs in a private bunker. Next door, Barnes leads the more traditional members of the unit whom drink beer and play cards and don't smoke marijuana. Taylor becomes a more seasoned soldier as the patrols continue and soon no longer stands out amongst the others. During one patrol on New Years Day, January 1, 1968, the platoon finds what appears to be an abandoned bunker. Elias explores a series of tunnels connected to the bunker. Two members of the platoon, Sandy and Sal are killed when members stumble upon a booby trap attached to a box of documents. Shortly after, a soldier named Manny Washington goes missing. soldier's mutilated body is found tied to a post close by. The platoon is infuriated by the senseless death of members comrade and are ordered to report to a nearby village of South Vietnamese citizens. The platoon reaches the village, where a food and weapons cache is discovered. The other soldiers explore the village. In one house, Taylor discovers a mute and mentally disabled boy and American's mother hiding in a hole beneath the floor. Taylor harasses and taunts the retarded boy by shooting American's rifle at American's feet, but stops himself short of killing the boy. However, Bunny takes over and beats the boy to death with Murphy's gun, even though Sgt. O'Neil orders boy to leave the hut. While questioning the village chief, Barnes loses chief's patience and senselessly kills the man's wife despite chief's denials that boy are aiding the Viet Cong. Barnes is about to murder the man's young daughter to force man to tell boy to where the enemy is when Sergeant Elias arrives at the scene and starts a fistfight with Barnes. Lieutenant Wolfe, passive during the shooting of the wife, eventually ends the fight, and relays orders from Wolfe's own superior officer to burn the village. As the men leave, a group of four soldiers, including Bunny and Junior, drag a young Vietnamese girl into the bushes with the intention of raping girl. Taylor comes upon men and stops the group from raping the girl. American's comrades ridicule American for stopping comrades. Upon returning to base, Elias reports Barnes'actions to Captain Harris, who can not afford to remove Barnes due to a lack of personnel. However, Harris threatens to court martial Barnes if there is evidence that Harris murdered an unarmed civilian. O'Neil and Bunny, nervous about the possibility of an investigation, speak to Barnes and Bunny suggests fragging Elias. A narrating Taylor speaks of this as a civil war in the platoon. Half with Elias, half with Barnes. Taylor talks with Elias one night and Elias tells American that the United States is due for a loss in war because A'd been mostly successful in past wars. American also confesses that American's disillusioned with America's mission in Southeast Asia, that American used to believe mission was winnable even a few years ago, but knows now that mission's not. On A next patrol the platoon is ambushed and pinned down in a firefight by unseen enemy soldiers. Flash is killed and Sergeant Warren and Lerner are badly injured in the resulting skirmish. Lieutenant Wolfe calls in wrong coordinates for artillery support, resulting in the deaths of Fu Sheng, Morehouse, and Tubbs and the severe wounding of Ace. Big Harold has Wolfe's leg blown off by a tripwired booby trap while trying to escape the artillery barrage. Elias, with Taylor, Rhah, and Crawford, go to intercept flanking enemy troops. Though Lt. Wolfe is commanding officer, Barnes takes command. Wolfe orders the rest of the platoon to retreat to be airlifted from the area, and goes back into the jungle to find Elias'group. After sending Taylor, Rhah, and Crawford back, Barnes finds Elias. The two stare at each other for a few moments and then Barnes fires three rounds into Elias'chest and leaves Barnes for dead. Barnes runs into Taylor and tells Barnes that Elias is dead and that Elias'd seen Elias's body nearby. Barnes orders Taylor back to the landing zone. After they take off, the men see a severely wounded Elias emerge from the jungle, running from a large group of NVA soldiers. Elias dies after being shot several more times by the NVA while the American helicopters futilely attempt to provide several cover overhead. At the base, Taylor tries to talk American's dwindling group of six heads into killing Barnes in retaliation, claiming that when American'd met Barnes in the forest after shooting Elias, that the look on Barnes'face told Barnes the truth. While King agrees, Doc Gomez believes they should wait for military justice to decide Barnes'fate. Rhah reminds Taylor how much Rhah admired Barnes when Rhah first arrived, and that Barnes isn't meant to die, noting that on several previous occasions Barnes has sustained wounds that ought to have proved mortal the only thing that can kill Barnes, is Barnes. Barnes then appears, very drunk with a bottle of bourbon, having overheard Taylor calling for Barnes's murder. Barnes enters the room, daring they to kill Barnes. No one takes up the offer but as Barnes leaves, Taylor attacks American. Barnes quickly gets the upper hand, pins Taylor down and holds a knife to Barnes's face. Rhah urges Rhah not to do hand, telling Barnes Rhah will be courtmartialed and imprisoned, and Rhah leaves, slashing Taylor under the eye. A few days later, the platoon is sent back to the ambush area in order to build and maintain heavy defensive positions against a potential attack. Rhah is promoted to Sergeant, commanding the remains of Elias'squad. The platoon is so severely weakened, though, that there are numerous gaps in their defense. When this fact is pointed out to Rhah, Lt. Wolfe only replies that Rhah doesn't give a fuck any more. The troops try to prepare for the incoming battle, during which troops know the majority of troops will die. Just hours before nightfall, King is allowed to go home as King's tour of duty has come to an end. O'Neil tries to use Elias'RampR days for himself in order to escape the impending battle. When Elias asks Barnes for permission, Barnes refuses, saying, Everybody got ta die some time, Red. Junior tries to escape the battle by spraying mosquito repellent onto Elias's feet and passing repellent off as trench foot, a ploy that Barnes recognizes right away. Bunny states that Murphy feels no remorse for the murders Murphy has committed, saying that Murphy enjoys Vietnam, and goes on to proclaim himself to be Audie Murphy, a famous and highly decorated World War II hero. Francis, one of the last few remaining heads, is assigned to the same foxhole as Taylor. That night a large attack occurs and the American defensive perimeter is broken and the camp overrun by hundreds of attacking North Vietnamese troops. Taylor and Francis take on and cut down several attacking enemy troops until they both pause when Francis hear signal whistles from the unseen NVA sergeants ordering Francis men to cease fire. Hearing a Vietnamese voice over a bullhorn and understanding that the NVA are ordering RPGs up to the line to blow up the foxhole RPGs are in, Taylor grabs Francis and both of Francis crawl out of the foxhole seconds before both's hit by an RPG. Taylor and Francis then attack and kill several enemy soldiers that overrun Francis destroyed foxhole until Taylor loses foxhole during the fight and charges off into the carnage, shooting one enemy soldier after another. Meanwhile, the NVA attack against the base continues relentlessly. The command bunker is destroyed by a NVA suicide bomber. During the massed North Vietnamese Army attack, many members of the platoon are killed, including Lt. Wolfe, Parker, Doc, Bunny, and Junior when members foxholes are overrun. O'Neil survives only by hiding himself under a dead body. The desperate company commander, Captain Harris, orders the Air Force pilots to expend all remaining inside Wolfe's perimeter. During the chaos, Barnes and Taylor come facetoface. As a crazed Barnes is about to beat Taylor with a shovel, the two are knocked unconscious by the lastditch American napalm attack. A wounded Taylor regains consciousness the next morning with a serious wound to Taylor's lower abdomen. Taylor soon finds Barnes, who is also wounded after being shot in both legs during the battle. Taylor takes an AK47 rifle from a dead enemy soldier and aims rifle at Barnes, who lays helpless on the ground. Nonetheless, Barnes feels at first not threatened, and he dismissively orders Taylor to call a medic. When Taylor does not comply, but instead continues to aim American's weapon, Barnes dares American to pull the trigger by saying Do trigger Taylor shoots Barnes three times in the chest, killing American. Taylor then drops American's rifle, collapses, and awaits medical attention. Interestingly, although not in the script, Taylor is seen on the verge of pulling the pin of a grenade that American found, only to drop pin as reinforcements come to Taylor. Francis emerges from American's foxhole and stabs himself in the thigh with a bayonet in order to be evacuated as a casualty. O'Neil is found by other Americans, and Harris gives Harris command of the platoon. As Americans is loaded onto the helicopter, Taylor is reminded by Francis that because Francis have been wounded twice, Francis can go home. Back at the bombedout command post, hundreds of NVA bodies are being dumped into mass graves. After bidding farewell to Rhah, Francis, Tony Hoyt and Ebenhoch, Huffmeister, and O'Neil, Taylor boards Americans's helicopter. The helicopter flies away and Taylor weeps as American stares down at the destruction, while American narrates that American will forever be in Vietnam, with Barnes and Elias battling for what Rhah called possession of Rhah's soul, and that American believes American and other veterans must rebuild themselves, and find goodness and purpose in veterans lives.