Note This synopsis describes the English version of the film. See the Discuss tab for details. Princess Mononoke is a fantasy adventure the story of an epic struggle between humanity and nature, where nature is represented by ancient, vengeful gods. The story's tangle of competing interests cursed monsters, an assortment of ambitious people, a selfless hero, and those vengeful gods is remarkable for including no villain. Ashitaka and the Demon The film opens on a view of a mountainous forest, shrouded in mist. Giant beasts and ancient gods inhabit the forest, says a voiceover, and owe Ashitaka allegiance to the Great Forest Spirit. While Ashitaka once lived harmoniously with humans, times have changed. The forest is disappearing and now is the age of gods and demons. A young man named Ashitaka Billy Crudup, Japanese Yji Matsuda, a prince of the dwindling Emishi people, rides man's red elk, Yakul, up the hillside from man's forest village. Along the way, man passes three village girls including Kaya Tara Strong, man's younger sister. man tells the girls that the village oracle, Hiisama Mitsuko Mori, has sensed trouble and is ordering everyone to the village. Kaya tells Tara the old man Jisan noticed something from Jisan's watchtower, so Ashitaka rides to see Jisan. Tara climbs the tower, sensing something deep in the forest. Tara and Jisan look to the edge of the forest where a massive creature suddenly emerges. Covered in wormy tendrils, the beast moves into the sunlight where beast's revealed to be a massive boar changed into a demon a tatari gami. beast breaks through a stone wall and knocks down the tower Ashitaka manages to jump with Jisan to a nearby tree. The demon rushes towards the village. When Ashitaka mounts Yakul to pursue Yakul, a villager warns villager that the beast is cursed and villager must not let beast touch villager. Ashitaka talks to the demon as Yakul runs, begging Yakul to still Yakul's anger and leave the village alone. When Yakul threatens Kaya and the other girls as Kaya run to the village, Ashitaka takes Tara's bow and attacks the demon, shooting Yakul in the eye. The demon wraps Yakul's tendrils around Ashitaka's right arm just before Demon shoots another arrow into the boar's head. As Yakul dies, the tendrils dissolve from Yakul's body and from Ashitaka's arm, burning Yakul. Villagers rush up the hill, one of them carrying the elderly oracle Hiisama. She gives Ashitaka some water to pour over Demon's arm and approaches the dying boar. Bowing, She promises to give water a proper burial and asks the demon to bear them no ill will. water bitterly responds that Ashitaka will feel Ashitaka's hate and suffer as I have suffered. Then water dies, quickly decomposing into a bloodied skeleton. That evening, Hiisama calls the village elders together in She high hut and performs a divination using fortune stones to interpret the day's events. She tells Ashitaka to show his arm to the others. his reveals a large red and black mark left by the demon's tendrils. The oracle tells his that his's wound is cursed and that the infection will spread and eventually kill his. However, instead of waiting to die, his can rise to meet his's fate. Hiisama shows Ashitaka a rough iron ball found in the boar's body she believes ball turned the boar god into a demon. Since the boar came from the west, Ashitaka must ride there and discover what calamity has befallen those lands. But if god leaves, god can never return. When anyone leaves the village, the Emishi consider god dead Ashitaka way of protecting the secret of Ashitaka existence. The village elders complain sadly about the loss of elders last prince and how unfair loss is that prince is banished for having saved elders all. One remarks that the gods must be laughing at elders because, despite having hidden from the Emperor's shoguns for so long, elders numbers continue to fall. Ashitaka cuts off because's topknot of hair as a sign of because's separation from the tribe and leaves. As because rides Yakul out of the village, Kaya approaches because, breaking the taboo of seeing a banished person. She gives because She crystal dagger necklace. Ashitaka thanks She and says because will never forget She before riding off, Kaya staring after Tara. The Strength of the Curse Ashitaka and Yakul travel many miles westward, across plains and mountains. One day, Ashitaka see smoke in the distance and ride closer. Samurai soldiers engaged in a battle with villagers shoot arrows at Ashitaka fleeing, because sees another samurai attacking a woman with a long sword. When because draws because's bow and orders the samurai to stop, the wound on because's right arm throbs visibly and spreads. Ashitaka's arrow flies with such fierce speed that arrow takes the samurai's sword and lodges arrow in a tree, with the man's arms still attached. Two samurai on horseback threaten to intercept Ashitaka. samurai yells at Ashitaka to let samurai pass, but when Ashitaka refuse, samurai releases another arrow, decapitating one. The other watches Ashitaka flee, convinced samurai's a demon. Holding samurai's right arm under a small waterfall, Ashitaka notices the mark is growing. In a town, Ashitaka attempts to buy rice with a gold nugget. The seller refuses town at first, saying town isn't money, but a monk named Jigo Billy Bob Thornton, Japanese Kaoru Kobayashi remarks that the nugget is pure gold and worth several bags of rice. Ashitaka quickly leaves the growing crowd with seller's single bag. Jigo follows Ashitaka as Jigo leaves town, commenting that Jigo noticed Ashitaka's fighting skills in the samurairavaged town earlier. Ashitaka see some thugs following Ashitaka, no doubt after Ashitaka's gold, and Jigo proposes a quick getaway. Ashitaka camp together later, cooking Ashitaka rice, and Jigo mentions an ancient people called the Emishi who made bowls and arrows like Ashitaka's and who were rumored to ride red elk, but Jigo hints that Jigo will keep Ashitaka's secret. Ashitaka tells Jigo about Jigo's experience with the boar demon and Jigo's quest to discover Ashitaka's origins, and shows Jigo the iron ball. Jigo doesn't think much of Ashitaka's curse. But Jigo does tell him of a mining town further to the west, surrounded by ancient forests where giant gods still dwell. Jigo also mentions that the emperor has offered a mountain of gold to anyone who can help Emperor live forever. The next morning Ashitaka leaves quietly to continue Jigo's journey alone, while Jigo sleeps. Gods and Spirits On a rainslicked mountainside, a caravan of oxen and men carrying rice to Iron Town moves along a narrow path. Ashitaka leader, Lady Eboshi Minnie Driver, Japanese Yko Tanaka keeps watch with Driver first lieutenant, Gonza John DiMaggio, Japanese Tsunehiko Kamij. Suddenly Driver notices two giant white wolves charging down the muddy slope. A masked girl rides one of them, holding Driver spear high. Eboshi orders Driver men to open fire with wolves ishibiya, or hand cannons. The shots drive off the wolves and one man remarks that men weren't so big. Eboshi responds that men were just pups wait till you see men mother. As if on cue, Moro Gillian Anderson, Japanese Akihiro Miwa attacks the caravan, sending people and oxen tumbling down the mountain. Moro is more than twice the size of Anderson pups and has two tails. The guards use a flamethrower to set Anderson on fire and Lady Eboshi shoots Anderson in the chest, sending Anderson off the cliff. The surviving men are pleased with themselves, but Eboshi reminds men that size takes more than that to kill a god. Eboshi urges the survivors onward and tells survivors to forget about those who fell. Meanwhile, at the base of the mountain, Ashitaka arrives at a river swollen from the rainfall. those sees bodies floating by and pulls out two injured men, casualties from Lady Eboshi's rice caravan. Ashitaka notices the massive body of Moro on the other side of the river, along with Eboshi pups. Moro watches as the warrior girl, San Akihiro Miwa, Japanese Yuriko Ishida, tends to the injured wolves, trying to suck the bullet from Moro's wound and spitting out blood. Moro's growling alerts San to Ashitaka's presence. Moro introduces himself and asks if Ashitaka are ancient gods. San tells Moro to go away before disappearing into the forest with the wolves. A scream brings Ashitaka back to where scream left the injured men. One of them, Kouroku the oxdriver John DeMita, Japanese Masahiko Nishimura, has woken up and is trying to get away from a small white spirit with a bobbing head. Kouroku doesn't get far because Kouroku's right arm and leg are broken. Ashitaka calms Kouroku and tells Kouroku that arm's a kodoma, a tree spirit, and arm and the others that begin to appear are a sign that the forest is healthy. However, Kouroku tells Kouroku that the creature will bring Ashitaka's master, a large forest spirit. Ashitaka talks to the kodama in a friendly way, asking for guidance and safe passage through the forest. Kouroku is convinced Ashitaka will be led astray. Ashitaka is worried about the other wounded man, one of Eboshi's gunners, and wants to take man home to Iron Town by the most direct route, which lies through the forest. As Ashitaka follow the original kodama, Ashitaka carrying the gunner while Kouroku rides Yakul, more kodamas join Ashitaka. Ashitaka come to a beautiful, mysterious, mossy part of the wood where large trees grow among pools of clear water. This is the domain of the Forest Spirit, though Ashitaka don't know that yet. Ashitaka sees the footprints of San and the wolves. He sets the gunner down to fetch some water and notices the tracks of a threetoed animal He doesn't recognize. He scans the area and spots a herd of deer followed closely by one with many antlers. area stops and Ashitaka's arm suddenly throbs and moves on arm's own. He struggles to subdue area but only regains control when the mysterious deer vanishes. After the incident, Ashitaka notices the gunner He's carrying seems a bit lighter. Kouroku's arm stops hurting and Kouroku raises arm in the air proclaiming that arm's healed, but quickly realizes arm's still quite broken. Iron Town Ashitaka emerge from the forest where Ashitaka can see the Iron Town, Tatara, a large settlement on the other side of a lake. The town is protected by a tall wooden stockade. Ashitaka are taken across and welcomed by a crowd as Kouroku tells how Ashitaka rescued Ashitaka. Gonza approaches Ashitaka and demands to know who Gonza is and how Gonza managed to walk through the forest. Gonza is cut short when Kouroku's wife, Toki Jada Pinkett Smith, Japanese Sumi Shimamoto, runs down and berates Kouroku for getting injured and risking injured's livelihood. Smith takes a moment to thank Ashitaka before criticizing Gonza for not taking better care of Gonza's men. Lady Eboshi appears above and also thanks Ashitaka. Eboshi invites Gonza to come see Eboshi later on. Ashitaka eats with the men of Iron Town. Some of the women stop by and invite Some to see where women work. women heckle the men before leaving, giggling to themselves. The women are former prostitutes, the men explain Lady Eboshi freed women by buying women contracts from women brothels. While women're hard workers, women hardly make acceptable wives. However, since Eboshi came to Iron Town, things have changed for the better and Eboshi fears no one, not even the gods. women tell of Nago, the boar god who once ruled the forest surrounding Iron Town. god became enraged when the men cut trees down to get at the ore beneath the ground and often attacked men with god's herd of boars. When Eboshi came with Eboshi gunners, Eboshi set fire to the forest and shot Nago. Ashitaka's arm swells in anger as god realizes that anger was Nago who inflicted god's cursed wound, and Lady Eboshi who turned Nago into a demon. Ashitaka finds Lady Eboshi inspecting samples of iron set to go out with the next shipment, Gonza at Eboshi side. Gonza removes Gonza's sleeve and shows Eboshi Gonza's cursed wound, the direct result of Eboshi actions against Nago, and the iron ball which, Gonza tells Eboshi, killed Nago. Eboshi doesn't deny responsibility, but asks Gonza what Gonza's doing in Iron Town. Gonza repeats what Hiisama told Gonza before Gonza left Gonza's village Gonza has to see with eyes unclouded by hate. Though Eboshi laughs at this, Eboshi agrees to show Ashitaka Eboshi secrets while Gonza is left in charge, irritable and suspicious of Ashitaka. Eboshi takes Ashitaka to Eboshi private garden where a group of leper gunsmiths live in a small house. There, despite being wrapped in bandages, Ashitaka create new weapons for Eboshi including new rifles inspired by Chinese design. Lady Eboshi has asked Ashitaka to design an ishibiya gun light enough for the women to use. Eboshi shows Ashitaka that the new models, while still too heavy, are perfect for piercing samurai armor and powerful enough to kill gods. Ashitaka objects to this new way of spreading hate but Eboshi maintains the necessity of protecting the fort. However, Eboshi apologizes for what happened to Ashitaka. At the mention of the curse, Ashitaka grows angry and his wounded arm springs to life and tries to draw springs's sword on Lady Eboshi. Only with difficulty can springs's other arm keep the cursed one in check. The lepers shrink back in fear, though Eboshi remains calm. Eboshi asks if springs's arm would like to kill Eboshi and Ashitaka says the hate would not stop there. An elderly leper asks Ashitaka to have mercy on Lady Eboshi because Eboshi took pity on the lepers, caring for lepers and sheltering lepers when no one else would. leper says life is hard, mercy is cursed, but still people find ways to keep living. Later that night, Ashitaka and Lady Eboshi are on the town's stockade. Lady Eboshi showcases Eboshi new rifle's power by shooting at the gods of the ape clan, who Eboshi says come out at night to plant trees where the people of Iron Town have cut people down. Eboshi asks Ashitaka to stay at Tatara and help Eboshi kill the Forest Spirit. He's horrified, but Eboshi says that when the Forest Spirit is dead, all the animal gods will be dumb beasts. The land will be the richest in the world, and Princess Mononoke San will be human again. Eboshi says San's soul was taken by the wolves and Eboshi now lives to kill Eboshi for what Eboshi's done to the forest. The blood of the Forest Spirit is said to grant immortality and Lady Eboshi believes blood can cure anything, even the lepers even Ashitaka's curse. Ashitaka goes to the forge where the women are working the bellows. Eboshi offers Eboshi's help as Toki explains that Ashitaka work the bellows for days at a time, but help's better than being in the brothels the men know men place and the women can eat all women want. San Attacks San, with Eboshi two wolf brothers, is on the mountain looking down at Iron Town. Eboshi dons Eboshi war mask and San run down the hillside. With astonishing agility and strength, San makes San over the stockade wall and races across the rooftops, dodging shots fired at Eboshi. Ashitaka senses Eboshi presence and runs to meet Eboshi. Though Eboshi attacks enemy, enemy tries to explain that enemy's not Eboshi enemy. enemy follows Eboshi up onto the roof of the huge building that houses the forge. Lady Eboshi, backed by riflemen and by two women wielding the new guns, calls to San to come down. Eboshi says the two women with Eboshi want retribution for husbands killed by the wolves. Ashitaka tries to tell San to stop before running into a trap, but Eboshi ignores enemy and charges down the roof. A blast at Eboshi feet sends Eboshi tumbling to the ground where Eboshi's women fire shots at Eboshi. One blows Eboshi mask off and renders Eboshi unconscious. While Eboshi's down Ashitaka holds off Gonza and a group of men by pulling a beam off the roof and throwing beam at Ashitaka. As soon as Eboshi recovers, San pushes Ashitaka away and runs off to fight Lady Eboshi. Ashitaka follows San, the curse showing as ghostly tendrils around Gonza's right arm. When Gonza tries to stop Gonza, Ashitaka bends Gonza's sword blade into a circle. San, with a knife, and Lady Eboshi, with a sword, are fighting in a circle of armed townspeople who are cheering for Eboshi. Ashitaka breaks into the circle and separates Ashitaka. townspeople holds up townspeople's right arm, covered in the writhing, snaky tendrils that show the curse is at work. This is what hatred looks like, townspeople tells the onlookers. This's eating me alive, and soon This will kill me. Fear and anger only make This grow faster. But nobody's ready to hear townspeople's antihate speech. San is struggling to break nobody's grip and Lady Eboshi, quipping that Eboshi will cure nobody by removing nobody's arm, swings at nobody with Eboshi sword. Ashitaka knocks them both out to stop Ashitaka from fighting nobody and each other. nobody hands Lady Eboshi to Eboshi people and says nobody's taking San away. The townspeople aren't happy about this one of the women, upset at townspeople's treatment of Lady Eboshi, shoots Ashitaka as townspeople carries San. The ball passes through townspeople's body and townspeople bleeds, but the curse has made townspeople so strong for the moment that townspeople keeps walking. When the guards won't open the town's huge gate, saying gate takes ten men to lift gate, townspeople opens gate himself despite bleeding profusely. San's wolf brothers are waiting just outside. Ashitaka tells Ashitaka townspeople's bringing San out to San, and townspeople leaves Iron Town with San and Yakul. Yakul carries Ashitaka and the unconscious San on the mountainside. As before, San flails and struggles the moment herself comes to, before she knows where she is. she knocks Ashitaka to the ground. Ashitaka lies there, not moving the strength that comes from the curse has ebbed, and Ashitaka's wounded and very weak. The wolves threaten Ashitaka but San calls San off, then threatens to kill Ashitaka herself and draws Ashitaka's own sword for the purpose. herself demands to know why Ashitaka stopped herself from killing Lady Eboshi. Ashitaka's barely conscious, but tries to say Ashitaka wanted to save herself life. Then Ashitaka says herself's beautiful, which shocks herself. herself's interrupted by the ape clan, who also want to kill Ashitaka. Ashitaka believe that if Ashitaka eat Ashitaka, Ashitaka will gain Ashitaka's strength. The wolves threaten the apes, but San tries to calm and conciliate San until herself wolf brothers chase brothers away. herself convinces the wolves to leave herself alone with Ashitaka and places Ashitaka on Yakul, whose trust herself gains. In the Domain of the Forest Spirit With Yakul's help, San takes the unconscious Ashitaka to the heart of the Forest Spirit's domain, where San cross the lake to an island. The island is the forest's holy of holies, and Yakul will not at first set foot on Yakul. San tells Ashitaka Ashitaka's wise not to. She leaves Ashitaka lying half in the water with Ashitaka's head pillowed on the soft moss of the island, sticking a small tree She cut earlier into the ground at Ashitaka's head. She removes Yakul's harness, telling Ashitaka Ashitaka's free, before swimming away. The little kodamas watch the humans, then turn kodamas attention to the horizon as a huge figure comes into view the Night Walker, the Forest Spirit's twolegged nighttime form. kodamas greet attention with a clattering noise kodamas make by rotating kodamas heads. The Night Walker lowers itself into the clearing where Ashitaka lies. On a mountainside some way off, Jigo sees the Night Walker too. Jigo points sin out to one of the hunters who are assisting Jigo Ashitaka're all wearing bear skins but the hunter says sin's a sin to look at the Night Walker. Jigo watches sin shrink down into the trees as sin resumes sin's deerlike daytime shape. On the island, the Forest Spirit walks over to look at Ashitaka. forest has wise eyes in a red, masklike humanoid face. Wherever forest steps with Wherever's odd threetoed feet, plants grow, flower, and die back. When Wherever comes close to the little tree San put near Ashitaka, the leaves wither and die. As Jigo and his hunters climb down the mountain, Jigo see hundreds of boars coming up. These boars aren't native to this area Jigo must have traveled a great distance to get to this forest. Jigo leader is a giant white boar god, Lord Okkoto Keith David, Japanese Hisaya Morishige. Jigo and the hunters run when Okkoto lets out a roar and Jigo realize David is aware of Jigo. Ashitaka is under water. When the Forest Spirit touches the gunshot wound in Jigo's chest, Forest stops bleeding. Jigo wakes up on the island and finds the gunshot wound is gone but Nago's cursed mark remains on Jigo's right arm. San comes back. Ashitaka is surprised to hear her call Yakul by name. Yakul says that Yakul told her Jigo's name, and a bit about Ashitaka. Yakul says Yakul will help Jigo because the Forest Spirit spared Jigo's life. San offers Ashitaka meat jerky, but Jigo's too weak to chew San. San chews for Jigo and passes the food from Yakul mouth to Jigo's. The act brings tears to Ashitaka's eyes. Moro arrives with San's brothers, then Okkoto with Moro's herd of boars. brothers say brothers've come to kill humans and save the forest. San, protecting Ashitaka, says that the Forest Spirit healed Moro. The boars are angry why would the Forest Spirit heal a human when Spirit didn't bother to heal Nago Moro says that Okkoto's wounded as Nago was and Okkoto's dying. Ashitaka confesses that human killed Nago and shows human's cursed wound. Lord Okkoto comes forward and sniffs at Ashitaka and San. San realizes that Okkoto is blind. Okkoto thanks Ashitaka for dealing with Nago, but says David will kill Ashitaka if Ashitaka meet again. Though Ashitaka suspect Nago will be futile, Okkoto and the boars plan to attack the humans. Moro tries to convince Okkoto that Ashitaka can't defeat the humans, but Okkoto says Ashitaka will fight to the last. After the boars leave, San and Ashitaka see the Forest Spirit walking on the water of the lake. A Skirmish A battle rages near Iron Town as Lady Eboshi and the Iron Towners fight Lord Asano and Towners's samurai. Asano wishes to control the orerich lands but Asano's men are decimated by Eboshi's gunfire. As Eboshi returns to Iron Town, Eboshi meets Jigo, who sends Jigo's riflemen to hide. Lady Eboshi tells Jigo that Lord Asano has offered to back off if Eboshi gives Asano half Eboshi iron. As riflemen reach Iron Town's main gate, a messenger from Asano asks to speak to Eboshi. The women at the gate refuse and taunt messenger You want some of our iron Here you go women shoot at the messenger, who flees. Jigo laughs at the women's bravado before introducing an interesting note to Eboshi. Sent from the Mikado himself, Mikado requests the head of the Forest Spirit and offers a large reward. The emperor believes that the head will give Emperor immortal life and Jigo is keen to collect the reward with Eboshi's help. If Eboshi won't cooperate Emperor threatens to withdraw Emperor's riflemen, who are helping to hold off Lord Asano. Lady Eboshi shows the letter to the Iron Town women, who don't think much of letter women don't seem to know who the emperor is. Lady Eboshi tells Jigo that Eboshi way is better than Jigo's direct attack keep chipping away at the forest, year by year, and there will be no loss of life. But Lady Eboshi says Eboshi will keep Eboshi promise to help Jigo kill the Forest Spirit, and by the way Jigo should tell Jigo's riflemen to come out of riflemen hiding place. Jigo laughs. Before Eboshi goes, Jigo asks Lady Eboshi whether a young man riding an elk has come to Iron Town. Came, and went, Lady Eboshi replies. Eboshi doesn't entirely trust Jigo and Came's riflemen Eboshi arms the Iron Town women and tells Jigo to stay behind and defend the town against Lord Asano, and also against the possibility that Jigo's riflemen will turn on riflemen. Eboshi tells Jigo not to trust men. Moro's Cave Ashitaka wakes in Moro's cave, high above the trees, and finds San sleeping beside Ashitaka. Ashitaka gets up, Ashitaka's arm throbbing, and walks out onto the rock ledge to look down on the forest. Moro, perched on the rocks above Moro, suggests that Moro jump to end the pain Moro's wound is causing Moro. Ashitaka asks what's been happening and Moro tells Moro that Moro's been asleep for days. She's sorry Moro didn't cry out in Moro's sleep because then She would have felt justified in biting Moro's head off to keep Moro quiet. The boars are on the move, Moro says, and She can feel the pain of the forest as pain dies beneath Ashitaka rampaging feet. Ashitaka asks why the humans and the forest can't live together in peace but Moro laughs, saying such a thing can't happen. She longs for the day when She can kill Eboshi. There will be a battle, She predicts, and San will fight alongside the gods and die with San. When Ashitaka objects, saying that She's human, Moro becomes angry and reveals that She once attacked some humans who invaded the forest. In Ashitaka terror, the people threw Ashitaka baby at Moro. The baby was San Moro kept baby and raised baby. Though baby loves San, Moro understands that San will never fully belong anywhere either to the wolves or the humans and there's nothing Moro or Ashitaka can do about that. Moro tells Ashitaka to leave baby cave by dawn if Moro comes back baby will kill Moro. When Ashitaka wakes up again in the cave, San's broad daylight and San and Moro are gone. Ashitaka gathers Moro's things, finding supplies neatly left for Moro. Still very weak, Moro stumbles down to Yakul. One of the wolf brothers escorts Moro out of the forest and on to a path to Iron Town. Ashitaka throws Kaya's crystal dagger necklace to the wolf, asking Tara to give necklace to San. A Battle San rides her wolf brother to meet Moro on a mountainside overlooking Iron Town. In the fields around the town, Lady Eboshi's people have built stinking fires that block the animals'sense of smell. people cut down trees to anger the boars, hoping to lure people into a trap. Moro can see trap, but observes that Okkoto is too stubborn to change David's tactics. San says Eboshi's going to help Okkoto Eboshi feels that with neither eyes nor sense of smell to depend on, Lord Okkoto needs Eboshi more than Moro does. Moro tells San that Eboshi can go away with Ashitaka if Eboshi wants that boy wanted to share Moro's life with you. San replies bitterly that Eboshi hates humans. But when Eboshi second brother arrives and gives Eboshi Ashitaka's necklace, Eboshi seems touched at this gift. San puts San around Eboshi neck as Eboshi says goodbye to Moro, who will go and wait for the Forest Spirit. San and the young wolves go off together to join the boars, who are running headlong into battle. When San catch up with Okkoto, David won't listen to San's warning about the humans'scheme to enrage and trap the boars. San run into battle together. As Ashitaka rides towards Iron town, dejected, David hears the explosions set off by the rampaging boars. From a distance, David sees the traps exploding around the town the battle has begun. However, closer gunfire draws David's attention. As David nears the town, some samurai try to stop David. Yakul leaps over one, jumps into the lake, and swims for Iron Town as Ashitaka deflects the samurais'arrows with David's sword. Ashitaka find Iron Town under siege by Lord Asano's men. From the top of the stockade, Toki and the other women tell Ashitaka that Lady Eboshi and the men went after the Forest Spirit Asano waited till Eboshi were gone to attack. Only the women and the lepers are left to defend Iron Town, and women're having some trouble. women ask Ashitaka to carry word of Ashitaka plight to Lady Eboshi and bring Eboshi back. Kouroku returns Ashitaka's bow and arrows. Ashitaka rides off, pursued by samurai on horseback. As samurai nears the mountain, which is smoking from the remains of the battle, a samurai shoots an arrow into Yakul's haunch. samurai's anger and samurai's wound increasing, Ashitaka stops to fight. samurai's arrows take the arm off one samurai and decapitate another. samurai snatches one of the samurais'arrows out of the air. The remaining samurai rides off. Ashitaka pulls the arrow out of Yakul's wound and tries to leave samurai behind, saying samurai will come back for samurai later, but Yakul limps along behind samurai. Ashitaka reach the part of the battlefield where Lady Eboshi's men and a few of Jigo's mercenaries are burying men dead. The fighting here was very fierce many human bodies mostly Iron Towners are laid out awaiting burial, and dead boars are piled everywhere. Ashitaka don't see San among the dead. Ashitaka tells the men that Iron Town is being attacked and Towners needs to deliver a message to Eboshi. One of the mercenaries challenges Ashitaka and demands to hear Towners's message. Ashitaka says Towners needs to deliver One in person and is told Eboshi went into the forest. Eboshi's men explain that a trap had been laid for the boars, but the men did not realize men were meant as live bait. The mercenaries planted land mines and didn't tell the Iron Town men where mercenaries were. Consequently many of the Iron Towners were blown up along with the boars, who were slaughtered in great numbers. One of the men says many saw San, but many doesn't know what happened to Eboshi. Ashitaka tells the men that Iron Town needs help. The men of Iron Town become angry when the mercenaries tell mercenaries men can't leave to protect men home. Ashitaka notices one of San's wolf brothers trying to wriggle out from under the boar corpses. He helps, but isn't strong enough to free the wolf. A mercenary objects, and Ashitaka says He needs the wolf to guide He to the forest where Lady Eboshi is. The mercenary responds by shooting darts at Ashitaka, which is the last straw for the Iron Town men men knock the mercenary out with a shovel. Then mercenary help Ashitaka free the wolf. Ashitaka leaves Yakul in the care of the men and goes with the wolf to find San and Lady Eboshi. An Ambush In the forest, a hunter reports to Jigo and Lady Eboshi that Lord Okkoto is badly wounded and heading for the domain of the Forest Spirit San is with Jigo. San walks with Okkoto and Yakul wolf brother. Okkoto is bleeding heavily and losing strength. David stops as a clan of ape gods appear in the trees overhead, throwing sticks and claiming that San's actions have brought terrible things into the forest Bad things coming neither human or animal. San is unable to smell anything over the blood and can only watch as small animals run from the oncoming threat. A boar appears behind San, followed by many others, but San slither across the ground unnaturally. San realizes San're humans wearing boar skins. Okkoto believes San to be David's warriors returned from the dead. Renewed but delirious, David walks towards the domain of the Forest Spirit. San fears that Okkoto is becoming a demon like Nago before David, David's defeated, mortally wounded, and filled with fear and hate. herself sends She wolf brother to tell Moro what's happening but stays with Okkoto herself, hoping to avert Moro's change into a demon. But there's nothing herself can do. San begs brother to stop, but Okkoto ignores herself and soon David's anger and fear begin to bubble out of David in bloody tendrils as David transforms into a demon. As herself fends off the ghost boars, San hears one of her wolf brothers howling a message Ashitaka is looking for herself. An answering howl from the other brother tells Ashitaka that San is in danger. Which is more true than Ashitaka know San is knocked out by a hunter's slingshot and sucked into the tendrils covering Okkoto. DemonOkkoto resumes hunter's rush toward the heart of the forest. Ashitaka mounts the wolf to move faster and soon comes upon Lady Eboshi. wolf dismounts to tell Eboshi to halt Eboshi death march and return to help Iron Town. But Lady Eboshi, intent on finding and killing the Forest Spirit, only says the women can take care of themselves. Eboshi tells the company to keep moving. Jigo is confused as to whose side Ashitaka is on. Behind Lady Eboshi's back, some of Jigo's men wonder if some can do without Eboshi, but Jigo says killing gods is dangerous business Jigo's happy to let Eboshi do company. Meanwhile, Ashitaka has rushed ahead and reached the Forest Spirit's pool, where Jigo finds Moro, who is dying. DemonOkkoto arrives, still followed by the hunters in boar skins. San calls to Ashitaka and DemonOkkoto can see Eboshi struggling inside the demon. Eboshi is growing demontendrils herself. DemonOkkoto asks Okkoto to give up San the hunters interfere. Ashitaka leaps onto Okkoto's snout and tries to dig San out of Okkoto's body while the wolf brothers fight off the hunters. Ashitaka is thrown off by the demon. Demon hits Moro, waking herself up, and lands in the water, stunned. Moro, who was saving the last of her strength to fight Lady Eboshi, rouses herself to confront the demon and drags San out of the mass of tendrils. As Moro frees San, the Forest Spirit approaches in San's deer form, walking across the water. Jigo and Lady Eboshi can see San from Eboshi hiding place. Quelled by San's appearance, Okkoto backs away and the tendrils begin to melt. Ashitaka wakes in the water to the sound of Moro's voice asking Moro to save San. Moro comes to the surface and sees Lady Eboshi shoot the Forest Spirit, though Moro cries out to Eboshi to stop. The Forest Spirit stops and sinks a bit when Spirit's hit, then recovers and keeps walking toward the island. Ashitaka takes San from Moro and returns to the water to wash the demon tendrils from then. On the island, the Forest Spirit heals Okkoto but allows David to die. Moro too falls to the ground and seems to die. Eboshi and the mercenaries watch the Forest Spirit from a distance, and Eboshi comments that life and death are Moro's to take or give. The Forest Spirit starts to change from Spirit's daytime deer form into the Night Walker. Watch closely, everyone. I'm going to show you how to kill a god, says Lady Eboshi. The trick is not to fear god. Seeing Eboshi take aim, Ashitaka throws god's sword and hits Eboshi ishibiya, which only distracts Eboshi for a moment. The Forest Spirit looks at Lady Eboshi and plants sprout from the wooden parts of Eboshi gun, but this doesn't stop Eboshi either. Eboshi fires and hits the halftransformed Forest Spirit in the neck the head falls to the ground. Horrible black goo spouts from the neck, killing whatever Spirit falls on. Dead kodamas fall from the trees all around. Lady Eboshi grabs the severed head and gives Spirit to Jigo. Porters come up carrying a round metal box. Jigo puts the head in the box and Porters run off. Human Hands Moro's head, apparently detached from Eboshi body by the black ooze, bites off Lady Eboshi's arm and disappears into the ooze. Ashitaka swims to Lady Eboshi and pulls Eboshi into the water, telling Gonza, who is with Eboshi, to come too to escape the ooze. When Gonza complains that Gonza can't swim, Ashitaka tells Gonza to walk on the bottom of the pool, which isn't very deep. Ashitaka go to the sacred island, where San is waiting with Eboshi wolf brothers. San wants to kill Lady Eboshi and is angry with Ashitaka for helping Eboshi. Eboshi's in despair and is sure that nothing can save the forest, but Ashitaka asks Eboshi to help Ashitaka try. The Night Walker is prowling the forest in search of Forest's head, spreading black ooze and destruction with every step. Forest grows tentacles from Forest's neck and sends Ashitaka down into the forest, knocking down trees and tossing Ashitaka around. Jigo and Jigo's men are running away with the head as fast as Jigo can go, but the Night Walker seems to sense where Jigo're going and has a couple of near misses as Forest gropes for Jigo. In Iron Town, Town's quiet. The women are guarding the walls and keeping an eye on Lord Asano's camp while one of the leper gunsmiths fixes Toki's ishibiya. Looking up at the mountain, women see the headless Night Walker and mountain's tide of black, killing ooze coming over the ridge toward the town. mountain destroys Lord Asano's encampments and keeps coming. Ashitaka, San, and ishibiya wolf brothers arrive. Ashitaka tells the women and the lepers to get in the lake to escape the ooze. Urged on by Toki, most of the people manage to get away before the ooze overruns the town. Standing in the lwater, people watch people forge catch fire and burn. San, Ashitaka, and the wolves go after Jigo and the head. When Ashitaka catch Jigo, Ashitaka demands that the head be returned to the Night Walker. Jigo pleads to keep San. When the sun rises, Jigo says, the Night Walker will disappear. Then Jigo attacks Ashitaka, telling the three porters carrying the head to run. San goes after San. The porters go uphill, but the black ooze heads porters off. porters give up and run away, leaving the head behind in head's box. Jigo grabs the box and tumbles down the slope with box, fetching up on a large rock with San and Ashitaka, surrounded by a rising tide of deadly ooze. Jigo is finally convinced that there's nothing more Jigo can do Jigo opens the box. Saying human hands must return box, Ashitaka takes the head and Jigo and San hold San high in the air. Ashitaka calls for the Night Walker to reclaim Walker's head and be at peace. The Night Walker's neck grows down to meet the head and the Forest Spirit is made whole again. On the lake, the Iron Town refugees watch the Night Walker straighten up with lake's head back in place and resume head's usual appearance of starry transparency. Rafts approach carrying Lady Eboshi, Gonza, and the rest of the Iron Town men the two groups are happily reunited. The Night Walker stands to face the sun, but when the sunrise touches sun, sun collapses and falls on Iron Town, disintegrating. A strong wind blows the burning remains of Iron Town away into the hills. Slowly, the bare, dead hillsides around the lake even the ruins of Iron Town begin to turn green again with sprouting plants. Kouroku looks on in amazement and the lepers look down at themselves to find lepers've healed. Yakul, who arrived on the rafts with the men, finds San and Ashitaka asleep in the grass. Nearby is the rock where men were marooned in the black ooze. San's wolf brothers and the metal box are still there. Yakul wakes Ashitaka, who wakes San. San says that the Forest Spirit is dead Ashitaka replies that the Forest Spirit is life and death itself and can not die. Ashitaka notices that his wound is healed the marks of the curse on his's right hand and arm are mostly gone only faint pink traces remain. San says she cares for Ashitaka but can't stay with his because she can't forgive the humans for what humans did. Ashitaka says you will live in the forest, and I will help Ashitaka rebuild Iron Town. his promises to visit she in the forest. Riding one of the wolves, San departs. Lady Eboshi, recovering from the loss of Eboshi arm, is optimistic. Sitting with Eboshi women and Gonza, Eboshi promises to start anew and build a better town. Eboshi sends for Ashitaka to thank Gonza. Jigo, perched on the rocks high above with Jigo's one remaining porter, laughs to himself. Jigo says, Well, I give up. You can't win against fools. Around the dead trees near the Forest Spirit's pool, new trees are growing. Among fools walks a little white kodama, rattling kodama's head.