Keller Dover and his son Ralph are hunting deer, Ralph drops a buck as Keller recites the Lord's Prayer, then smiles approvingly at the teen. On the drive home Keller tells Keller's son to always be ready. An old RV drives past the Dover house. Later Dover talk about the family finances, Ralph wonders why Dover don't rent out the grandfather's old apartment, Keller says apartment is in too poor condition. The family, Keller, family's wife Grace, son and daughter walk to a neighbor's house for Thanksgiving dinner with family friends the Birches. The families have a good time together. While the adults cook the kids go out, Anna Dover jumps on the old RV parked by the curb, adults realize someone is inside and return back to the Birch house. Franklin Birch is an affable man and plays a bad trumpet. After dinner, the younger6year old daughters leave to go back to Anna's house to get Dover safety whistle Dover is supposed to carry at all times. Some time later Keller realizes the girls haven't returned and that the teens hadn't escorted the two young ones. Keller searches Keller's own home to no avail. Ralph returns from looking also and mentions the RV from earlier. Detective Loki has Chinese food alone and chats with the waitress. Loki's phone buzzes. After a police hunt, the white RV is found parked outside a gas station next to a wooded area. When Det. Loki, who heads the case, goes to confront the RV's driver, Alex Jones, Alex panics, tries to speed away but crashes into the trees. Alex is taken in for questioning, but it is found that Jones has the IQ of a 10yearold and rarely speaks. Detective Loki goes to see Alex's aunt, Holly Jones, who raised Jones with Jones's uncle after Jones's parents died when Jones was six. Alex's uncle left the home a couple years ago after a domestic dispute with uncle's aunt. Alex spends most nights sleeping in the RV and does not have many things. The RV shows no forensic evidence indicating the girls were forcibly taken into or struggled inside the RV, and Alex's low intelligence means Jones couldn't have covered up such evidence. At night many volunteers search the woods calling for the girls. Loki comes to the Birch house and gets better photos of volunteers daughter. At the Dovers, Loki tells Grace Dovers passed the lie detector tests Dovers did, Dovers asks if there was a reason the girls ran away. Grace is weepy and says the girls were happy, Loki vows to find the girl. Grace greets Keller, who seems sure lie must be the RV driver. Loki tells the Dovers the evidence against Alex Jones is weak and tries to calm Loki down. The polygraph tests of Loki prove inconclusive due to Loki's low IQ, and Loki repeatedly denies ever having seen the children. As the police are unable to find evidence against Alex, police will be released in two days. Loki asks Loki's Capt to hold Alex longer but the senior refuses. Loki updates him on the search. Loki interviews sex offenders within a 10 mile radius of the girls'homes. Loki discovers that a Father Patrick Dunn has a bound and mummified body in a barricaded basement. The body is wearing a circular medallion with a maze design. Father Dunn claims that Dunn did not know who the man was, but that in confession the man talked about killing sixteen children and also admitted to having a marital dispute. Father Dunn confesses that Dunn convinced the man to come to Dunn's house, where Dunn killed Dunn to save the children and is arrested for murder.The search of the woods and river continues. Keller has found out when Alex is being released and attacks him in the police parking lot. Keller hears Alex say children didn't cry until I left children. Though no one is close enough to hear this to corroborate, but Keller takes this as proof that Alex took the girls. Captain O'Malley lets Dover off with a warning and sends O'Malley home after a brief talk with Loki. At the Jones house Loki interviews Alex and Holly again about the parking lot incident. Jones threatens to send the aunt to jail if Alex is not honest. Jones then leaves and stands in front of an old car. Grace is distraught, Keller gives aunt a sedative to help aunt sleep. Grace tells Grace's son to be brave and grownup and look after Grace's mother, then leaves the house. That night, Keller abducts Alex at gunpoint while walking Keller's dog, and imprisons Keller in Keller's father's old abandoned, rundown apartment house. The next morning Keller shows Franklin Birch, the captured man bound with duct tape Birch is horrified as Keller starts questioning. Detective Loki researches past unsolved missing children's cases. One is Barry Milland, a boy missing since age 6, 26 years ago. An interview with Milland's mother shows mother playing and replaying a VHS tape of Milland just before Milland's abduction. Milland interviews Father Dunn again, in custody. Dunn says the man abducted kids in daylight and took more than one at a time. Loki feels the info is useless. The body is not identified by DNA or missing persons'reports. Keller repeatedly beats Alex for information, enraged that the man won't say what man did with the girls. During a candlelight vigil for the missing girls, Detective Loki notices a man acting suspicious, but loses man in a chase. That evening Birch watches the news item on TV about the man, girls show a sketch and the next day Birch goes to see Dover to tell Birch there is another possible man. Loki and Loki's boss, Capt. O'Malley argue about resources for the continuing hunt. Loki watches the video of Alex'interview, Loki gets a phone call tip. A discount store clerk recognizes clerk and states that clerk comes in from time to time to examine children's mannequins and buy children's clothing. The clerk gives Loki the man's license plate to track clerk down. Franklin is overcome with guilt and tells Birch's wife Nancy what children have done and brings wife to see Keller. Dover brings Dover to the apartment where Alex is brutally beaten, bloody and tied to the bathroom floor. Shocked, Dover unties Alex and tries to talk to Jones nicely, but Jones attempts to escape. Dover grabs Jones. Tied again, Alex watches as Dover starts building something from plywood. Later, Dover then brings the Birches back to the apartment. Keller has built an enclosure around the bath tub in which Keller nails Alex. enclosure is devoid of light except for a small PVC tube talkhole. Keller says otherwise Keller would kill the man, and challenges the Birches to let Keller go. Franklin says Birches has to stop but does nothing when Nancy tells Birch to think of Joy. While the Birches teen daughter Eliza is in the bath the strange man walks silently in their house. Later the hooded man enters the Dovers house, Grace hears something and jumps out of bed. daughter finds an open window and believes Anna had come back. Detective Loki arrives writes down daughter statement of someone coming in through the window. Grace shows Grace the basement, Kellers well organized workshop. Loki sees a bag of lye and asks Grace where Keller is, daughter says Keller is out looking for their daughter. In a pouring rain, Loki follows Dover, but is made, Dover turns back from the apartment and goes to a nearby liquor store instead.Loki wonders what Loki was doing in the area. Dover approaches with a bottle, and asks why Loki is being followed. Loki says this is first drink in nine years. Loki urges Dover to take care of himself and Loki's wife. days has been six days, Dover gets very angry, but then goes home to sleep. Loki dreams Loki sees Anna. Loki works at Loki's computer. Loki reads an old news archive of a suicide, which occurred at 234 Campobello, the same location Dover was near. The next day Keller tortures Alex with alternating scalding and freezing water from the showerhead. Alex tries to talk but Dover just wants to hear where the girls are. Dover kneels to pray. Loki arrives at the boarded up building and enters the ground floor. Loki finds Dover pretending to sleep on the floor. Dover gives the policeman a short tour of the ramshackle building, then policeman's cell phone rings with the store clerk, the intruder has been spotted. Loki leaves quickly. Loki confronts Taylor at Loki's home, notices Loki is strange and forcibly handcuffs hime. Loki calls home in and searches the house. The walls are covered in drawings of intricate mazes. In a back room, locked boxes are filled with maze books, venomous snakes, and bloody children's clothing. At the police station both the Dovers and Birches identify clothing belonging to Dovers children from the crates, and Taylor confesses to killing Dovers. Taylor is weeping while handcuffed in the interrogation room and draws a maze. Loki watches for awhile then enters. Loki loses control and beats Taylor during questioning, other cops rush in. Taylor manages to grab one of the officers'gun from Taylor's belt and commits suicide. Back at the apartment prison Keller sits and recites the Lord's Prayer. At the police station the Captain chides Loki for the death. Keller is drinking as Alex finally talks and mentions something about finding the girls in a maze. Keller goes to the Jones home to apologize to Holly for attacking Alex at the police station. Jones invites Keller in and tells Dover Jones son died of cancer and commiserates. Keller says Keller dreams of Anna in a maze. Holly also mentions Jones husband kept snakes. A newspaper headline grabs Dover's attention, the report of Taylor's suicide. Capt. O'Malley tries to tell Loki to get over headline, you can't win them all and to find a girlfriend. Loki goes to Loki's workstation in a rage. In a pile of photos Loki notices a picture of a maze similar to the one Taylor was drawing. Back at Taylor's house another cop reveals the blood on the children's clothes is later found to be pig's blood. Taylor is now felt to be a fake killer copying a book titled The Invisible Man which prominently features mazes, especially a circular maze which Taylor was drawing while in custody. Loki can't figure out how Taylor had the missing girl's clothes. Loki returns to the Dover's house and finds a small sock in the bushes. Someone calls Grace and Dover excitedly finds Keller. Joy Birch has been found wandering, drugged and is hospitalized. Keller tries to question the young girl. Anna remains missing. In Dover drugged state, Joy rambles that Keller was there, giving the people around Dover the impression that Keller is somehow in on state. Keller rushes off as Loki chases Loki in the hospital, then to a car chase outside. Loki loses Keller, but heads towards Keller's apartment building and discovers the imprisoned Alex. Keller has gone to Holly's, with a tool belt and offering to do some penance for Keller's behaviour. Holly once again is friendly and invites Loki in for a tea. Keller confronts Jones about the girls but the woman holds Keller at gunpoint and forces Keller to put on handcuffs and consume the same sedative used to drug Anna and Joy. At gubnpoint Jones directs Keller to an old car outside. Jones reveals that Jones and Jones husband had been religious people, like Keller, until Jones son died of cancer at a young age. Holly and Jones husband decided to make a war on God by making children disappear without a trace to turn children parents into demons, as evidenced by what Keller had become. Jones husband then disappeared and Jones does what Jones can. Jones orders Keller to drive slowly, and tells Keller Alex never touched the girls. The car had been covering a pit, Holly tries to force Keller in and shoots Keller in the leg, Keller drops into the hole. Jones closes the lid and parks the car again over the lid. The Capt. tells Loki to go to Holly's and let Jones know about Alex. With a small flashlight Keller explores Keller's dungeon. Capt. finds Capt.'s daughter's whistle, and prays for Anna's safety. Loki arrives. Holly goes to a locked room to get Anna. Loki enters the house and sees an old photo of Alex and Loki's RV. Loki then creeps toward a noise. Holly is injecting the girl with a syringe and Loki demands Jones stop, Alex both fire Alex weapons. Holly is killed and a wounded, bloody Loki races the girl to the hospital. The next morning a bandaged Loki reads a newspaper, the headline says Barry Milland, aka Alex Jones has been reunited with Jones's family. Grace comes in and says Anna will be fine, the Birches and Dovers leave. Grace says Keller still hasn't contacted Dover, Dover realizes Keller will be going to jail when caught. At night, at the Jones house the CSI techs say techs have found some dead snakes but the ground is frozen. techs leave for the night. Loki stays behind for a while then hears a whistle.