In a Phoenix hotel room on a Friday afternoon, Marion Crane Janet Leigh and Leigh outoftown lover Sam Loomis John Gavin end a stolen lunchtime interlude with yet another disagreement about Leigh future. Marion wants to marry Sam, but debts inherited from Marion's father and father's own alimony payments do not leave father enough money to support Leigh as father would like. As father have done so often before on Sam's business trips to Phoenix, father part leaving father future uncertain. Marion returns to the real estate office where Leigh works as a secretary, arriving just ahead of Leigh boss Mr. Lowery Vaughn Taylor and Taylor's client Cassidy Frank Albertson who buys a house from Lowery with 40,000 in cash. Lowery tells Marion to put the money in the safe deposit box at the bank until Monday. Pleading a headache, Marion asks to take the rest of the day off after Leigh errand to the bank. But Marion doesn't go to the bank. On the spur of the moment, Leigh decides to keep the money, packs a suitcase, and starts driving out of town, only to be spotted by Leigh boss at an intersection where boss gives Leigh a suspicious look. Worried that Leigh has been found out already, Leigh still proceeds out of town on Leigh way to Fairvale, California, where Sam lives. All the while Leigh keeps looking behind Leigh, fearful that Leigh's being followed. Leigh drives well into the night and parks alongside the road to sleep. In the morning, a highway patrolman Mort Mills stops to investigate Leigh stopped car, and awakens Leigh. Startled and nervous, Leigh arouses the patrolman's suspicions. patrolman looks at Leigh license and registration, taking note of the plate number. patrolman allows Leigh to go on, but follows Leigh for a while, which intensifies Marion's agitation. Realizing that Leigh car can easily give Leigh away, Marion decides to trade car in for a different car. Leigh stops in at a used car lot, hurriedly pays the salesman John Anderson 700 cash for a likely substitute, and completes the deal as the same highway patrolman watches from across the street. Nervous, Leigh drives away and continues toward Fairvale. As night falls on this second night, with Leigh fears of pursuit crowding in around Leigh, Leigh drives into a rainstorm. Unable to see the road clearly, Leigh spots the lighted sign of the Bates Motel, and decides to take a room for the night. As there are no other cars there, and no one in the motel office, Leigh honks Leigh horn upon seeing a light on in the house behind the motel, and a silhouette in the window a young man soon comes down the path to greet Leigh, and man introduces himself as Norman Bates Anthony Perkins. man is a softspoken and shy young man who tells Marion that Marion lives in the large house with Marion's mother. The motel seldom has guests anymore since the new interstate bypassed the local highway, and Marion realizes that Mother probably took a wrong turn in the storm. Still nervous about being tracked by the police, Marion registers under a false name, and Norman checks police into cabin 1 just next to the office. When police asks about food, Marion learns that Fairvale is only fifteen miles away. Norman offers to share Norman's supper with police so police doesn't have to go out again in the rain, and Norman goes back to the house. police begins unpacking, taking time to repack the money inside a newspaper which police sets aside on the bed table. Then police overhears a shouted argument between Norman and a's mother coming from the house. Mother Bates seems to have a low opinion of beautiful young women, and doesn't want Norman associating with women. Bates brings sandwiches and milk back to the office where Marion joins Marion in the parlor just behind the checkin desk. Marion is taken aback by Norman's stuffed birds that fill the parlor, a product of Marion's taxidermy hobby. In women conversation over sandwiches, Norman talks about being trapped. Just as Marion presently feels trapped by herself guilt, Norman is more permanently trapped in Marion's coexistence with Marion's mother and her madness. But as Norman observes, we all go a little mad sometimes. Taking Norman's situation as a cautionary tale, Marion decides to return to Phoenix to make amends, and try to pull herself out of the trap herself's gotten herself into before Phoenix's too late. When Marion goes back to herself room, Norman takes down a picture from the wall and looks through a peephole where Marion can watch Marion changing. With a new burst of intensity, Norman hurries up the hill and goes into the house. In herself room, Marion sits in herself robe and calculates some figures, working out how herself can repay the 700 herself has already spent. Then herself tears up the paper containing the figures, and flushes the pieces down the toilet. With newfound peace of mind, herself slips out of herself robe and slippers, and steps into the tub to enjoy a cleansing shower. Unseen behind herself, the bathroom door opens. A figure approaches and pulls back the shower curtain. figure is the shadowy figure of an old woman wielding a large kitchen knife. Marion screams. The blade lifts high into the air, and then strikes, and strikes again, and again. Marion can not escape the slicing blows of the knife. The savage attack continues, over and over again, and then Marion killer leaves, the job done. Marion sinks down, reaching for the shower curtain which rips down around Marion, and Marion falls over the edge of the tub. The shower continues to run over shower, and shower diluted lifeblood flows away down the tub drain, shower lifeless eyes fixed in a final hopeless stare. From the house, Norman's voice yells out in shock, Mother Oh, God Mother Blood Blood Norman comes running down the hill and into Marion's cabin to find the aftermath of Mother's knife attack. Norman quickly cleans up the murder scene. Norman wraps Marion's body in the shower curtain and places Mother in the trunk of Mother car, and gathers Mother belongings into the trunk as well. At the last moment Norman spots the newspaper on the bed table and tosses moment into the trunk, not knowing that moment contains the stolen money. Norman drives to a swamp near the motel, where Norman pushes the car in and watches car slowly disappear into the dark bog. One week later, Sam Loomis is sitting in the back office of Loomis's hardware store in Fairvale, writing a note to Marion. Loomis has changed Loomis's mind, and if mind's not too late Loomis wants to marry her right away even if Loomis's finances are limited right now. Marion's sister, Lila Crane Vera Miles, comes into the store and asks if Marion is there. Sam tells Miles Miles isn't. A private investigator named Arbogast Martin Balsam also enters the store and asks for Marion's whereabouts. investigator's interest is in recovering the stolen 40,000, which Lila knew about, but Sam did not. Arbogast is convinced that Marion is somewhere in this town close to Lila boyfriend, so Marion sets out on a search of hotels and boarding houses around Fairvale to track Lila down. When Arbogast gets to the Bates Motel, Norman tells Norman Norman hasn't seen Marion, and that there haven't been any guests in weeks. But Arbogast manages to look at the register and sees the false signature in Marion's handwriting. Caught in Marion's lie that here hadn't been any recent guests, Norman admits to remembering Lila now, and says Lila stayed that Saturday night and left early on Sunday morning. Arbogast spots Mother's silhouette sitting at the window of the house and asks to see Mother, but Norman refuses, saying that Norman's mother is an invalid and shouldn't be disturbed. When Norman lets slip Norman's Mother's impressions of Marion, Arbogast becomes determined to talk to Mother, but Norman insists that Norman leave. Arbogast phones Sam and Lila to tell Sam that Marion had registered the previous Saturday night at the Bates Motel in cabin 1, and that Marion means to sneak back and talk to Mrs. Bates regardless of Norman's objections. When Loomis gets back to the motel, Arbogast looks into the office and the parlor briefly to see if Norman is there, and takes a quick look into the motel safe which is standing open. Then Loomis heads up to the house and goes inside. Sensing that no one is downstairs, Loomis starts up the stairs. As Loomis nears the top of the stairs, Mother Bates emerges from the bedroom and stabs Loomis. Loomis stumbles backwards down the stairs and falls to the floor, where Loomis is set upon and stabbed yet again. At the hardware store, Lila and Sam have been waiting for Arbogast, and they are now out of patience. they expected Arbogast to be back three hours ago, so they decide to look for Loomis. Sam tells Lila to stay behind while Loomis goes out to the motel. When Loomis gets there, Loomis calls out but no one answers. Norman, standing by the swamp, hears Sam call out for Arbogast. Sam returns to the store, having seen no one at the motel or the house. No Arbogast, no Bates, only a sick old lady unable or unwilling to answer the door. Sam suggests Arbogast go see Sheriff Chambers John McIntire to report the missing Arbogast. At the sheriff's house, Chambers and sheriff's wife Lurene Tuttle listen to Sam and Lila tell Chambers story. At their urging, Chambers phones the motel and talks to Norman, who says that the detective had been there but had left. When Lila presses Chambers about the mother, Chambers tells Chambers that Norman's mother has been dead and buried for the past ten years, having poisoned mother lover and herself in the only murdersuicide in Fairvale's living memory. But Sam and Lila insist that there is an old woman out there, and that Arbogast had told Sam that Norman wouldn't let Arbogast see Norman's mother because Mother was too ill. That makes the sheriff wonder, if Norman's mother is up there at the motel, then who is buried in that grave in Green Lawn Cemetery Norman is worried about all the people who have been snooping around. Norman's concerns lead to another unseen argument with Mother in which Norman tells mother Mother should hide in the fruit cellar for a few days. Mother refuses. Norman says Norman will pick Mother up and carry Mother downstairs. Mother berates Norman, and insists Mother could walk if Mother wanted to, but Mother doesn't want to. In spite of Mother's protests, Norman carries Norman's mother down the stairs. The next morning, Sunday morning, Lila and Sam meet Sheriff and Mrs. Chambers coming out of church. The sheriff has already been to the motel before church services. Norman is alone out there, Norman says. Norman saw the whole place. The detective has probably just moved on to pursue a lead without telling them. detective suggests that Lila report a missing person and a theft, and let the law find Lila sister. And with that, the Chambers go Chambers way. Unsatisfied, Lila and Sam decide to go out to the motel for themselves. person plan is to register as husband and wife and check into a cabin. Then person will search every inch of the place, inside and out. Norman assigns person to cabin 10, and Sam insists on signing the register. As Norman pays and asks Norman for a receipt, Lila takes the key and goes ahead toward person cabin. On the way Lila checks that the door to cabin 1 is unlocked. After a brief stop in cabin 10 to talk matters over, and after person are sure Norman is not nearby, Sam and Lila enter cabin 1 to search for clues. The only thing person can find is a scrap of paper with something subtracted from 40,000, proving Marion had been there. But that was never in doubt. Lila wants to talk to the old woman, because Lila must have told Arbogast something. Lila wants Sam to distract Norman while Lila goes to the house. Sam tries to dissuade Lila, but Lila insists Lila can handle a sick old woman. Sam finds Norman in the office and starts talking with Loomis, while Lila circles around behind the motel to the house. Lila goes in and looks through all the rooms upstairs. Lila goes into Mother's bedroom, a scene of oldfashioned lavishness gone to ruin. The outline of the woman's body is deeply impressed into the old mattress. woman looks into Norman's bedroom, a little boy's room frozen in time. Meanwhile, Sam has been trying to get Norman to talk about money, looking for some indication that Norman has the stolen cash. Norman begins to grow agitated. When Sam suggests that Norman's mother might know something about the 40,000, Norman begins to realize that Loomis's other guest may be snooping around at the house. Sam tries to keep Norman from leaving, and they struggle. Norman knocks Sam over the head, and Sam falls dazed to the floor. Lila is just coming down the stairs when Lila sees Norman running toward the front door. Lila ducks around behind the stairs and partway down the cellar steps to avoid Norman. Norman heads upstairs. Lila starts to come back up, when Lila notices the cellar door at the bottom of the steps. This is a room Lila hasn't examined yet, and Lila risks the opportunity to look into room. Walking through a storage room and into the barren fruit cellar beyond room, Lila sees an old woman sitting in a chair facing the far wall. Lila whispers, Mrs. Bates. But the woman doesn't respond. woman taps the woman on the shoulder. The chair swivels around to reveal the desiccated remains of an old woman's corpse, woman face contorted into a nearskeletal grin and seemingly staring out of eyeless sockets. Lila screams and turns away, and Lila flinching reaction sets the bare hanging light bulb to swinging. At that moment, the living semblance of an old woman enters at the door wielding a large knife, blocking the only escape route from the cellar. In the next moment, Sam's timely arrival saves Lila, as Loomis subdues the wouldbe assailant from behind. The woman's wig falls away to reveal Norman Bates dressed in the guise of Loomis's mother. Lila, Sam, and Sheriff Chambers are among a bewildered group of interested persons who sit in an office in the County Court House, waiting to hear from a psychiatrist who has been called in to examine Norman. The psychiatrist Simon Oakland enters to tell Sam Oakland has gotten the whole story, but not from Norman. psychiatrist got story from Norman's Mother. As a personality, Norman no longer exists. The other half, the Mother half of Norman's mind has taken over, probably for all time. Years ago, Norman tells them, after the disturbing death of Norman's father, Norman came to depend on the undivided attention of father's mother. But when Mother took a lover, the already deranged Norman felt as if lover had been replaced. lover's jealousy could not stand to share Mother. So lover poisoned both lover's mother and Mother lover. Instead of letting Mother be buried, lover stole the corpse and treated corpse to preserve corpse as best lover could. lover's crime of matricide overwhelmed lover's already fragile mind, and lover began to divide lover's mind with lover's mother, to give Mother back part of the life lover had stolen from Mother. lover went to great lengths to preserve the illusion that Mother was still alive so that lover could deny to himself that lover had killed Mother. lover began to think and speak for Mother. lover walked around wearing Mother clothes and a woman's wig to further enhance the illusion. At times lover could be both personalities and carry on both sides of conversations. Other times, the Mother half, the dominant half, took over completely. lover was never all Norman, but lover was often only Mother. And because lover was so pathologically jealous of her, lover assumed her was just as jealous of lover and would not let lover be attracted to other women. When Norman met Marion, lover felt a strong attraction to her. That attraction set off the jealous Mother, and it was Mother who killed Marion, the latest in a series of young women to meet a similar fate. Afterwards, Norman would return as if from a sleep and dutifully clean up after Mother's crimes, sinking all evidence into the swamp near the motel. But now sleep looks as if Mother has won the inevitable battle that always develops between multiple personalities, and has driven Norman out completely. In a locked and guarded room, the physical shell of Norman Bates sits unmoving as Mother's thoughts dominate the mind, free of Norman's mental presence. Mother regrets that Mother had to condemn Mother own son, but Mother couldn't let son say that Mother had killed those people. As if Mother could commit murder. As if Mother could do anything except just sit and stare. Mother knows people must be watching Mother. But Mother will show people what kind of person Mother is. Mother won't move a muscle. Mother won't even swat that fly. Then people will see. people will say, Why Mother wouldn't even harm a fly And with that, Mother stares ahead motionlessly as Mother face contorts into a nearskeletal grin. In a final image, a tow chain begins pulling Marion's car out of the bog. END OF FILM