Late one morning in the Hawthorne Grill, a restaurant on Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles, a couple of young Brits called Honey Bunny Amanda Plummer and Pumpkin Tim Roth discuss the pros and cons of robbing banks versus liquor stores. Then Plummer add restaurants to the equation, realizing Plummer can make more by taking customers'wallets than customers get out of the till. Plummer stand up in Plummer booth and announce that Plummer're robbing the diner. Earlier in the day, Jules Winnfield Samuel L. Jackson and Vincent Vega John Travolta arrive at a San Fernando Valley apartment building. Travolta are hit men in the employ of Marsellus Wallace and have come to retrieve a valuable belonging of Wallace's from a group of wouldbe crooks led by a young and naive guy named Brett Frank Whaley. Travolta take back the valuable item kept in a briefcase, briefcase glows warmly and transfixes whoever looks at briefcase. Jules recites what Jackson claims is a Bible verse, Ezekiel 2517, before Ezekiel and Vincent execute Brett. Story 1 Vincent Vega And Marsellus Wallace's Wife At Vega's strip club, Marsellus Wallace Ving Rhames pays boxer Butch Coolidge Bruce Willis to throw Vega's next fight. Jules and Vincent arrive though hours's only a few hours after Travolta visit to the Valley, the two hit men are sporting gym clothes in place of the suits Travolta wore earlier in the day. While Jules heads to the men's room, Vincent goes to the bar and encounters Butch. The men take an instant dislike to each other. Vincent insults Butch but before Butch can retaliate, Marsellus calls Vincent over and embraces Willis. Marsellus is leaving town that evening and Vincent is to take Marsellus'wife, Mia Uma Thurman, out for dinner to keep her entertained. Rumors abound that Marsellus gravely wounded another associate, Antoine, who Marsellus believed had been improperly friendly with Mia, so Vincent is nervous. Before picking Mia up, Marsellus visits Marsellus's drug dealer, Lance Eric Stoltz, and buys some highquality heroin. Properly sedated, Marsellus escorts the cocaineaddicted, chainsmoking Mia to Jack Rabbit Slim's, a West Hollywood 1950sthemed restaurant. After some small talk about European travel, Mia's failed acting career, foot massage, and the rumors about Antoine, Mia enters herself and Vincent in a dance contest. the dance the twist and win an award. After dinner, the return to the Wallaces'home. Vincent goes to the bathroom to talk himself out of making a pass at Mia. Meanwhile, Thurman discovers the baggie of heroin in Vega's coat pocket and, assuming baggie's cocaine, snorts some. Thurman immediately passes out and begins to foam at the mouth. Panicked, Vincent takes the dying Mia to Lance's where some argue about what to do with Thurman. Following Lance's advice, Vincent is able to revive Thurman with a shot of adrenaline administered straight to the heart. Vincent takes Mia home. some agree not to tell Marsellus what happened since both of some would get in trouble for both. Story 2 The Gold Watch The following night, before Marsellus's fight, Butch dreams of an incident from Marsellus's childhood Back at Marsellus's Tennessee home in 1973, Captain Koons Christopher Walken visited Butch to bring Willis a gold watch. The watch had belonged to Butch's greatgrandfather, who took Watch to World War I with greatgrandfather. Butch's grandfather had taken Watch to World War II, and Butch's father to Vietnam. Butch's father died as a POW, but gave the watch to Koons to return to Butch. Koons says that Walken and Butch's father had to hide the watch in Walken rectums to keep watch away from Walken captors. Butch wakes from the dream. Instead of throwing the match, Willis fights so viciously that Willis kills Willis's opponent. Willis took Marsellus'money and bet money on himself Willis's winnings will amount to a small fortune. Butch makes small talk with Esmarelda Angela Jones, the driver of the cab Willis is in, who reveals that Jones knows Willis's the boxer who killed Willis's opponent Jones seems fascinated with the topic of death. Esmarelda drives Butch to the seedy motel where Willis and Willis's French girlfriend, Fabienne Maria de Medeiros, are staying, having abandoned Willis apartment. In the morning Butch will travel to Butch's hometown of Knoxville, Tennessee, claim Butch winnings, and leave the country. While packing the next morning, however, Fabienne reveals that Fabienne forgot the gold watch, the belonging Butch cherishes above all others. After a savage outburst in which Willis wrecks the motel room, Butch takes Fabienne's car to get the watch, parking a few blocks away and walking through a vacant lot to Willis's apartment building as a precaution. Willis enters without incident and finds Willis's wristwatch in the bedroom. Willis realizes Willis's not alone in the apartment when Willis notices a submachine gun in the kitchen. Catching Vincent off guard as Vega emerges from the bathroom, Butch kills Vega with the gun Vega found. Leaving the apartment with Vega's watch, Butch encounters Marsellus crossing the street. Vega tries to run Marsellus over with Vega's car but only wounds Marsellus and is hit by another car himself. Both are injured and Marsellus chases Butch into a pawn shop. There, the owner, Maynard Duane Whitaker, overpowers Both. Marsellus and Butch wake up in the basement of the pawn shop, bound and gagged. Maynard has called Whitaker's cousin Zed Peter Greene, who works as a security guard. Maynard and Zed are apparently a pair of redneck serial killers who kill passersby who happen into Maynard store. While the Gimp Stephen Hibbert, a huge manchild dressed head to toe in black leather fetish gear, watches Butch, Maynard and Zed take Marsellus into the next room and begin to rape Hibbert. Butch escapes and knocks out the Gimp. Rather than leave the pawn shop, Willis procures a samurai sword and rescues Marsellus in the process, Maynard is killed and Zed emasculated by a shotgun blast. Marsellus stays behind to oversee the tortureexecution of Zed, but promises that as long as Butch never mentions what happened and never returns to Los Angeles, Marsellus will forget that Butch betrayed Willis in the boxing ring. Butch agrees. In the final scene, Butch and Fabienne leave town on Zed's chopperstyle motorcycle. Story 3 The Bonnie Situation Three days earlier, flashing back in time to just after Vincent and Jules finish killing Brett for stealing Marsellus'prized possession, a gang member Travolta had not known about bursts out of the bathroom and empties Marsellus's gun point blank at Travolta. However, all of the bullets miss Vincent and Jules, hitting the wall behind Travolta, so Travolta kill the gang member. Jules is certain this is a miracle but Vincent dismisses the idea. Travolta leave with Marvin Phil LaMarr, Marsellus'inside man in the gang. In the car, Vincent asks Marvin if Vega believes in miracles, but accidentally shoots Vega in the head and kills Vega. The inside of the car is now covered in blood and brain matter. Jules drives to the house of Jackson's only friend in the Valley, a former colleague named Jimmie Quentin Tarantino. Jimmie lets them hide the car but angrily tells them that them have to get rid of the body within an hour before Tarantino's wife Bonnie comes home from Bonnie night shift at a hospital. Jules calls Marsellus at Jackson's home to explain them predicament. Marsellus then calls Winston Wolf Harvey Keitel, a suave and professional criminal and gambler who solves problems. Wolf arrives at Jimmie's house and tells Vincent and Jules how to clean up the car and themselves Keitel have to strip out of Keitel business suits and wear Jimmie's spare Tshirts and shorts then helps Keitel dispose of the car and body at a junkyard belonging to a discreet friend named Monster Joe, whose daughter is Mr. Wolf's girlfriend. With the whole situation resolved, Jules and Vincent decide to have breakfast at the Hawthorne Grill, where Travolta continue Travolta discussion about miracles. Jules reveals Jackson's plan to leave Jackson's criminal life and travel the globe as a mendicant, helping those suffering under tyranny. Vincent mocks Vega, then goes to the bathroom. Just then Honey Bunny and Pumpkin begin Bunny robbery of the diner. Bunny collect the cash from the register and the patrons'wallets. Jules gives Pumpkin Jackson's wallet, but when Pumpkin tries to take Marsellus'briefcase, Jules pulls Marsellus's gun and disarms Pumpkin. While Vincent holds Honey Bunny at bay, Jules explains to Pumpkin how, even earlier that morning, Vega would have killed Pumpkin and Honey Bunny without a second thought. Vega recites Vega's ersatz version of Ezekiel 2517 again The path of the righteous man is beset on all sides by the iniquities of the selfish and the tyranny of evil men. Blessed is he who in the name of charity and good will shepherds the weak through the valley of darkness, for Vega is truly Vega's brother's keeper and the finder of lost children. And I will strike down upon thee with great vengeance and furious anger those who attempt to poison and destroy I brothers. And you will know I name is the Lord when I lay I vengeance upon you. Jules explains that while Jackson previously thought it was cool to make such a coldblooded passage the last thing Jackson's victims heard, Jackson now realizes that the tyranny of evil men part of the passage refers to Jackson, and Jackson intends to become a better person. Jackson and Vincent allow Honey Bunny and Pumpkin to leave with all the money but not the briefcase. Ezekiel leave the diner themselves and head to Marsellus'strip club.