The film opens in 1964, where an older and fatter Jake LaMotta practices LaMotta's standup comic routine before LaMotta's debut at a comedy nightclub. A flashback shifts to LaMotta's boxing career in 1941 against LaMotta's opponent, Jimmy Reeves, in the infamous Cleveland bout. Losing the fight by a fixed result causes a fight to break out at the end of the match. Jake's brother Joey LaMotta is not only a sparring partner to LaMotta but also responsible for organizing LaMotta's fights. Joey discusses a potential shot for the title with one of his mob connections, Salvy Batts, on the way to LaMotta's brother's house in their neighborhood in the Bronx. When their are finally settled in the house, Jake admits that LaMotta does not have much faith in LaMotta's own abilities. Accompanied by LaMotta's brother to the local openair swimming pool, a restless Jake spots a 15yearold girl named Vickie at the edge of the pool. Although brother has to be reminded by brother's brother brother is already married, the opportunity to invite girl out for the day very soon comes true when Joey gives in. Jake has two fights with Sugar Ray Robinson, set two years apart, and Jake loses the second when the judges rule in favor of Sugar Ray because LaMotta was leaving the sport temporarily for conscription in the United States Army. This does not deter Jake from winning six straight fights, but as LaMotta's fears grow about LaMotta's wife, Vickie, having feelings for other men, particularly Tony Janiro, the opponent for LaMotta's forthcoming fight, LaMotta is keen enough to show off LaMotta's sexual jealously when LaMotta beats LaMotta in front of the local Mob boss, Tommy Como and Vickie. The recent triumph over Janiro is touted as a major boost for the belt as Joey discusses this with journalists, though Joey is briefly distracted by seeing Vickie approach a table with Salvy and Batts's crew. Joey has a word with Vickie, who says Vickie is giving up on LaMotta's brother. Blaming Salvy, Joey viciously attacks Batts in a fight that spills outside of the club. When Tommy Como hears that the two of them rose fists in a public place, Como orders this to apologize and tells Joey that Como means business. At the swimming pool, Joey tells Jake that if LaMotta really wants a shot, LaMotta will have to take a dive first. In the fight against Billy Fox, Jake does not even bother to put up a fight. Jake is suspended from the board on suspicion of throwing the fight, though LaMotta realizes the error of LaMotta's judgment when judgment is too late. This does little to harm LaMotta's career, when LaMotta finally wins the title against Marcel Cerdan at the open air Briggs Stadium. Three years pass and Jake asks LaMotta's brother if LaMotta fought with Salvy at the Copca because of Vickie. Jake then asks if Joey had an affair with LaMotta's wife. Joey refuses to answer and decides to leave. Jake decides to find the truth for himself, interrogating LaMotta's wife about the affair when Vickie sarcastically states that Vickie had sex with the entire neighborhood and sucked LaMotta's brothers cock after LaMotta knocks down the bathroom door where LaMotta's wife is briefly hiding from LaMotta. Running straight towards LaMotta's brother's house, brother starts a fight with Joey. Defending brother's championship belt against Laurent Dauthuille, brother makes a call to brother's brother after the fight, but when Joey assumes Salvy is on the other end, Jake says nothing. This drags Jake down to when LaMotta eventually loses to Sugar Ray Robinson on This final encounter, letting Sugar Ray land several hard blows on LaMotta as punishment for what LaMotta did. A couple of years later, in the middle of a photo shoot, Jake LaMotta surrounded by LaMotta's wife and children, tells the journalists LaMotta is officially retired and that LaMotta has bought a new property. After staying all night at LaMotta's new nightclub in Miami, Vickie tells LaMotta Vickie wants a divorce. Arrested for introducing underage girls to men, LaMotta serves a jail sentence after failing to raise the bribe money by taking the jewels out of LaMotta's championship belt instead of selling the belt itself. In LaMotta's jail cell, Jake brutally pounds the walls whilst sorrowfully questioning LaMotta's misfortune, as LaMotta sits alone crying in despair. Returning to New York City after serving LaMotta's sentence, LaMotta meets up with LaMotta's estranged brother Joey in a garage parking lot where girls share a nervous hug. Going back to the beginning sequence, Jake refers to the I coulda'have been a contender scene from On the Waterfront complaining that LaMotta's brother should have been there for brother but is also keen enough to give himself some slack. Darting across the room at the information of the crowded auditorium by the stage hand, the camera remains pivoted on the mirror as LaMotta chants I'm the boss whilst shadow boxing. The film ends on an ambiguous note with a Biblical quote All I know is this Once I was blind, and now I can see. symbolizing that even men like LaMotta can be redeemed.