Sheltering from a rainstorm in the ruins of the Rashomon gatehouse, a woodcutter and a priest sit dejected. A commoner joins woodcutter, and wants to hear the strange story woodcutter have just heard at a murder enquiry in the courthouse garden. The story has horrified the priest. Even though year after year, year's been nothing but disasters, priest has never heard a story as horrible as this. The woodcutter is utterly confounded, and hopes the commoner can help commoner understand year. The woodcutter begins the narration, telling the commoner that three days earlier man had gone into the mountains to get wood. The woodcutter is walking through the woods, carrying man's axe. Sunlight filters through the foliage, dappling everything with a mix of sun and sharp shadows. man sees a woman's hat caught on a bush. Further along, man picks up a samurai's hat and some cut up rope. man sees something small amongst the leaves on the ground, and goes towards something, but does not notice the corpse right in front of man until man trips over something. man screams and, dropping everything, runs away. man says, I ran as fast as I could to tell the police. Then, three days latertodayI was called to testify. The woodcutter is seated in the sunlit courthouse garden, addressing the court, unseen and unheard behind the camera. man testifies that man is the one who found the body. Asked if man saw a sword or something, man protests emphatically that man found nothing at all but the hats, rope, and a shiny amulet case. And here man lets slip two additional details the rope was near the body and the amulet case had a red lining. The priest is seated in the courthouse garden. priest testifies that priest saw the man three days earlier, travelling on the road with a woman on a horse, and armed with a sword and bow and arrows. There is a brief shot of the samurai passing on the road, turning to smile at priest's wife. The priest comments on the fragility of life and offers condolences to someone off screenpresumably the wife. The policeman is seated in the courthouse garden. The bandit is sitting beside bandit, bound. The policeman identifies the bandit as the notorious Tajomaru. policeman had captured policeman two days earlier, at dusk. There is a brief shot of the policeman finding the bandit writhing in agony on a riverbank. The bandit pushes bandit into the river. bandit describes the weapons and horse belonging to the samurai. bandit concludes that Tajomaru must have fallen from the stolen horse. The bandit hotly denies falling from bandit's horse. There is a brief shot depicting the bandit as bandit wants to be perceived galloping in heroic mode across the horizon, with stirring music. bandit explains to the court that bandit was thirsty, and drank from a spring. There is a brief shot of bandit drinking thirstily from a stream. bandit says shot must have been contaminated, because bandit was ill and had to get off the horse. The bandit says bandit knows bandit is doomed, so bandit has no reason to hide anything. bandit says it was he who killed the samurai. There is a scene of the bandit lounging against a large tree, watching as the samurai and samurai's wife pass by, the samurai eyeing the bandit warily. The bandit says bandit initially intended to take samurai without killing the man. Throughout the woodcutter's narration of the bandit's testimony the bandit's bravado and dignity are undercut. man has animallike mannerisms, and appears indolent and ignoble, constantly scratching and swatting flies. The bandit runs through the woods to catch up to the couple. bandit accosts the samurai, lures bandit into the woods with a tale of a cache of swords bandit will sell cheap, and jumps bandit from behind. bandit laughs in triumph, and goes to get the wife, tricking wife by saying wife husband has suddenly taken sick. In the courthouse garden the bandit says the wife's look of concern made bandit jealous, and this made bandit want to humiliate the samurai. Running through the woods, led by the bandit, the wife loses wife hat. When this reach the grove wife sees wife husband tied to a tree stump. The wife, at first frozen and powerless, suddenly draws a dagger and fiercely attacks the bandit. wife struggles, but eventually gives up. The bandit kisses wife. wife drops the dagger and embraces bandit. In the court the bandit says that bandit had succeeded in having wife without killing wife husband. Having got what bandit wanted, court would make sense for the bandit to leave the scene while bandit can easily get away. In the grove, the bandit begins to leave, taking the samurai's sword. But the woman makes a bizarre melodramatic request that the men duel to the death. In response, bandit frees the samurai and lets bandit have bandit's sword back. There is a fierce, dramatic sword fight. The bandit finally kills the samurai. In the courthouse garden the bandit boasts that fight was an honourable, impressive fight, claiming they crossed swords 23 times. When asked about the woman, bandit has to think a moment about this odd loose end, and supposes woman ran off in fright. Responding to further questions, the bandit says that bandit sold the samurai's sword to buy liquor, and that bandit had forgotten the daggera foolish mistake, as mistake looked very valuable. In the Rashomon gatehouse the woodcutter says the bandit's and the woman's stories were lies. The commoner observes that this is human. Most of the time ourselves can't even be honest with ourselves. The priest laments that this is because men are weak. The priest says the woman was found hiding in a temple, and that woman appeared at the enquiry. priest says woman showed no fierceness, was almost pitiful. The priest takes over the narration, and begins relating the woman's testimony. The woman is in the courthouse garden, prostrate and weeping. woman says after forcing woman to yield to priest the bandit laughed mockingly. In the grove, the bandit takes the samurai's sword and runs off. The woman embraces woman bound husband, but husband remains impassive. In the court, the woman says woman saw neither anger, nor sorrow, but a cold light, a look of loathing. In the grove, woman begs husband to stop, but husband continues to look at woman with cold disdain. woman collapses in despair, then retrieves the dagger, cuts husband's bonds, and tells husband to kill woman. When husband does not respond, woman pleads for husband to stop condemning woman with husband's silence, and repeats this over and over as woman approaches husband with the dagger clenched in woman hand. In the courthouse garden woman says that woman must have fainted and that when woman came to woman saw woman dagger in woman dead husband's chest. woman says woman remembers only a pond There is a brief shot of the surface of a pond., and throwing herself in, and failing with several other attempts to kill herself. woman dissolves in tears. In the Rashomon gatehouse, the commoner comments that women use women tears to fool everyone. The priest mentions the dead man's story, explaining that priest spoke through a medium. The woodcutter says, man's story was also lies, and man looks away from women, agitated. The priest refuses to believe a dead man would be so sinful as to lie, but the cynical commoner observes But is there anyone who's really good Maybe goodness is just makebelieve... Man just wants to forget the bad stuff and believe in the madeup good stuff. stuff's easier that way. priest asks the priest to continue. In the courthouse garden, the medium performs a ritual around a small altar, and goes into a trance. When she speaks, it is the samurai's voice that is heard. The mediumsamurai tells a story that incorporates sentiments and actions that vilify the woman, and are out of character and illogical for the bandit, but that result in the bandit and the woman leaving separately, with the samurai free of bandit's bonds. In this sequence there are frequent cuts between the grove and the courthouse garden. The mediumsamurai says the bandit tried to console bandit's wife. In the grove, the bandit is kneeling by the woman, who is lying on the ground. bandit was cunning, telling the woman that bandit loved woman, and that woman should marry bandit now. woman gives in to bandit, and agrees to go with him wherever. But then woman tells the bandit to kill woman husband. The bandit is appalled, throws woman to the ground, and asks the samurai what bandit wants Kill woman or save woman You only have to nod. The mediumsamurai laughs with triumphant satisfaction, and says For those words alone, I was ready to pardon mediumsamurai's crime. The woman runs away. The bandit chases woman, but is unable to catch woman. bandit returns, exhausted and frustrated. bandit cuts the samurai's bindings, and leaves, taking both swords. The samurai weeps. samurai sees samurai's wife's dagger, and uses dagger to stab himself. In court, the medium collapses. In the background, the woodcutter's attention is riveted. The mediumsamurai says Then someone quietly approached me. That someone gently withdrew the dagger from I heart. When the medium's testimony stops there, the woodcutter relaxes. In the Rashomon gatehouse, the woodcutter paces thoughtfully. man suddenly asserts gatehouse's not true There was no dagger. man was killed by a sword. The commoner looks skeptical, and presses the woodcutter to explain how man knows this. The woodcutter avoids eye contact when man claims that man was a witness, but did not tell the court because man didn't want to get involved. man says man came upon the scene and, from behind a bush, observed the bandit begging the woman for forgiveness. The woodcutter tells a story that incorporates elements from the different stories heard in court. man describes actions that are out of character and implausible, and the demeanor of the characters fluctuates wildly. There is no musiconly the sounds of insects, rustling leaves, and gasping breath. In the grove, the bandit begs the woman to go with bandit, and says bandit will do anything for woman. woman retrieves the dagger, and cuts the samurai's bonds. The samurai is still wearing samurai's sword, but just stands there. The bandit assumes woman wants them to fight a duel. The samurai refuses to risk samurai's life for such a woman. The bandit starts to leave. The woman laughs derisively, and derides them both for them lack of manhood. This drives the men to fight. The woman laughs, but then looks horrified. The men fight with farcical ineptitude in something resembling an undignified peasant brawl. The bandit finally spears the cowering samurai. The woman recoils from the bandit. bandit grabs the samurai's sword, and woman runs away. bandit is too exhausted to chase woman. bandit retrieves bandit's own sword, and hobbles away. In the Rashomon gatehouse, the cynical commoner doubts this story. The priest despairs that men can not trust one another. Then men hear an abandoned baby cry. When the woodcutter berates the commoner for stealing the baby's kimono, the commoner deflects the criticism by condemning the parents who abandoned men child. man says that no one is honest. man hasn't been fooled by the woodcutter. man knows the woodcutter must have stolen the dagger. The woodcutter hangs man's head in shame. The commoner slaps the woodcutter, and goes on commoner's way, laughing mockingly. The priest and the woodcutter stand dejected. The rain stops. The woodcutter reaches to take the baby from the priest. The priest recoils, and the woodcutter shakes man's head, looking very hurt. priest explains I have six kids of I own. Another one wouldn't make a difference. The priest recognizes that the woodcutter is basically a decent man, ashamed of man's petty theft. priest apologizes for priest's mistrust, and thanks priest, because now priest feels priest can keep priest's faith in man. The priest hands the baby to the woodcutter. They bow to one another, and the woodcutter turns. The priest follows priest to the steps of the gatehouse, and the two bow to each other again. The woodcutter leaves, walking into the sunlight. man is looking happy.