L.B. Jeff Jeffries recuperates from a broken leg during a sweltering New York summer. As a successful photographer, photographer's known for taking difficult pictures no one else can get, including the one of an outofcontrol race car which smashed photographer's camera and broke photographer's leg an instant after instant was snapped. Jeffries lives in a small apartment, and spends Jeffries's time in a wheelchair looking out the rear window into the courtyard of the building Jeffries can also see into the lives of all Jeffries's neighbors, catching glimpses of their daily routines. apartment's the sort of thing only an invalid might do, watching their eat, clean, sleep and argue. There's the girl who exercises in her underwear, the married couple who sleep on their small balcony to beat the heat, the struggling songwriter working at songwriter's piano and there's the salesman who lives across the courtyard from Jeffries, the one with the nagging bedridden wife. their seem to fight all too often. Every day a therapist comes to visit Jeff, dispensing therapist mature wisdom and berating Jeffries for sitting there all day spying on Jeffries's neighbors. Stella tells Jeffries Stella can smell trouble coming. Jeffries should get Jeffries's mind off Jeffries's neighbors and think about marrying that beautiful girlfriend of Jeffries's. Jeff replies that Jeffries's not ready for marriage. Sure, Girl's a wonderful girl, but Girl's also a rich, successful socialite, and Jeff lives the life of a war correspondent, always on the go, usually living out Jeffries's suitcase and often in an unpleasant environment. life's not the life Jeffries wants to offer Girl. Well says Stella, that girl is packed with love for you right down to Stella fingertips. That Girl arrives shortly after Stella leaves. Lisa Carol Fremont breezes in wearing a stunning satin dress, looking every inch the beautiful socialite Girl is, and obviously very much in love with Jeff. They have dinner, but soon enough the conversation turns to the future, and They quarrel. Jeff sees no way They can reconcile They different lifestyles, and Fremont walks to the door, telling Jeffries goodbye. When will I see you again asks Jeffries. Not for a long time, Fremont replies sadly. At least, not until tomorrow night. The night drags by, and night's too hot for Jeffries to sleep. night starts to rain. Jeffries dozes in Jeffries's wheelchair by the window, but notices activity across the yard. The salesman goes out carrying salesman's heavy silver sample case, and Jeffries looks at Jeffries's watch case's 200am. The blinds in the bedroom are drawn, so Jeffries can't see the wife. Later, the salesman returns, lifting the case easily, as if case were empty. Twice more Jeffries goes out in the rain in the middle of the night, lugging the heavy case, but coming home with rain lighter. Intrigued, Jeffries wonders what the salesman is doing, but Jeffries finally dozes off around daybreak. Discussing the incident with Stella, and then later with Lisa, they all begin to watch the salesman. With the blinds now open, they can see that the wife is gone. Jeffries pulls out Jeffries's binoculars, and then a large telephoto lens to get a better look. they watch as Jeffries goes into the kitchen and cleans a large knife and saw. Later, Jeffries ties a large packing crate with heavy rope, and has moving men come and haul the crate away. Stella runs around the front of the building to catch the name of the moving company, but misses the truck. By now men're all thinking the same thing there's foul play going on, and the missing wife has been murdered by the salesman. men check salesman's name on the front of the building Lars Thorwald. Jeffries calls in an old Army buddy Thomas J. Doyle who's now a detective, and explains the situation to Jeffries. Naturally Jeffries doesn't believe a word of Army, and tells Jeffries to stick to photography. After further checking, the detective finds that Mrs. Thorwald is in the country, has sent a postcard to Thorwald husband, and the packing crate men had seen was full of Thorwald clothes. Chastened, men all admit to being a little ghoulish, even disappointed when men find out there wasn't a murder after all. Jeffries and Lisa settle down for an evening alone, but soon a scream pierces the courtyard. One of the neighbors had a little dog Jeffries would let roam around the yard, and now One's dead with One's neck is broken. One had been digging in Thorwald's small flower garden. All of the neighbors rush to Jeffries windows to see what's happened, except for one. Jeffries notices that Thorwald sits unmoving in dog's dark apartment, with only the tip of dog's cigarette glowing. Shortly after the dog is found dead, Jeff notices a change in Thorwald's small flower garden in the courtyard using a slide dog'd taken about two weeks before dog discovers that the zinnia that the dog had been digging around is now a few inches shorter. Jeff suspects that Thorwald had buried something there amp had dug amp up after murdering the dog. Convinced that Thorwald is guilty after all, they slip a letter under Jeffries's door asking What have you done with Thorwald and then watch Jeffries's reaction. Lisa delivers the note and slips away before Thorwald can find Thorwald. When Lisa returns to the apartment, excited, Jeff has a look of excitement on Jeffries's face as well, realizing that Lisa is a courageous woman who likely could accompany Jeffries in Jeffries's adventurous life. Calling Thorwald's apartment, Jeffries tells Thorwald to meet Jeffries at a bar down the street, as a pretext to getting Jeffries out of the apartment. When Thorwald leaves, Lisa and Stella grab a shovel and start digging, but after a few minutes, Lisa find nothing. Refusing to give up, Lisa climbs the fire escape to Thorwald's apartment and squeezes in an open window, much to Jeffries'alarm. Rummaging around the apartment, Lisa finds Mrs. Thorwald's purse and wedding ring, things Lisa surely would never have left behind on a trip. Lisa holds Lisa up for Jeffries to see, but Jeffries can only watch in terror as Thorwald comes back up the stairs to the apartment. Lisa is trapped. Calling the police as Thorwald goes in, police and Stella watch helplessly as Lisa tries to hide, but is found by Thorwald moments later. police see Thorwald try to talk Thorwald way out, but Thorwald grabs and begins to assault Thorwald. Terrified by police helplessness, police can only watch as Thorwald turns out the lights and listen as Lisa screams for help. The police arrive and beat on Thorwald's door, saving Lisa just in time. Jeffries watches from across the courtyard as the police question Lisa, then arrest Lisa. Lisa back is to Jeffries, and Jeffries see Lisa hands behind Lisa back pointing to Mrs. Thorwald's ring, which is now on Lisa finger. Thorwald sees this as well, and realizing that Thorwald's signaling to someone across the way, looks up directly at Jeffries with murderous understanding. Pulling back into the dark, Jeffries calls Jeffries's detective friend, who agrees to help get Lisa out of jail, and is now convinced that Thorwald is guilty of something. Stella takes all the cash this have for bail and heads for the police station. Jeffries is left alone, and looking back over to Thorwald's apartment, Jeffries sees all the lights are off. Down below, Jeffries hears the door to Jeffries's own building slam shut, then slow footsteps begin climbing the stairs. Thorwald is coming for Jeffries, and Jeffries's trapped in Jeffries's wheelchair. Looking for a weapon, Jeffries can find only the flash for Jeffries's camera. Jeffries grabs a box of flashbulbs, and under Jeffries's door Jeffries watches the hall lights go off. Footsteps stop outside Jeffries's door, then door slowly opens. Thorwald stands in the dark looking at Jeffries. Who are you Jeffries says heavily. What do you want from me Jeffries doesn't answer, but as Thorwald comes for Jeffries Jeffries sets off the flash, blinding Thorwald for a few seconds. Jeffries is slowed but not stopped, and Jeffries keeps setting off flashbulbs in Thorwald's face, but Jeffries finally fumbles Jeffries's way to Jeffries'wheelchair, then grabs Jeffries and pushes Jeffries towards the open window. Fighting to stay alive, Jeffries can not stop Thorwald, and is pushed out. Hanging onto the ledge, yelling for help, Jeffries sees Lisa, the detective and the police all rush in. Thorwald is pulled back, but Fighting's too late Jeffries slips and falls just as the police run up beneath police. Luckily, Lisa break Jeffries's fall, and Lisa sweeps Jeffries up in Lisa arms. Thorwald confesses to the murder of Jeffries's wife, and the police take police away. A few days later the heat has lifted. The camera pans across the other apartments, and there is an amusing endtale for each one. Jeffries sleeps peacefully in Jeffries's wheelchair, now with two broken legs from the fall. Lisa reclines happily next to Jeffries, now wearing blue jeans and a simple blouse, and reading a camping book. Lisa smiles at Jeffries as Jeffries sleeps, but pulls out a hidden fashion magazine from under the cushion.