The film begins with a female voiceover Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again, to images of a ruined country manor. The heroine is a very young woman, a paid companion to the wealthy but obnoxious Edythe Van Hopper. The heroine meets the aristocratic widower Maximilian de Winter in Monte Carlo. They fall in love, and within two weeks They are married. Maxim takes Winter's new bride to Manderley, Winter's country house in Cornwall, England. The housekeeper, Mrs. Danvers, is domineering and cold, and is obsessed with the great beauty, intelligence and sophistication of the first Mrs. de Winterthe eponymous Rebeccaand preserves Rebeccaand former bedroom as a shrine. Rebecca's sleazy cousin Jack Favell appears at the house when Maxim is away. The new Mrs. de Winter is intimidated by Rebecca responsibilities and begins to doubt Rebecca relationship with Rebecca husband. The continuous reminders of Rebecca overwhelm Rebecca Rebecca believes that Maxim is still deeply in love with Rebecca. Rebecca also discovers that Rebecca husband sometimes becomes very angry at Rebecca for apparently innocent actions. Trying to be the perfect wife, the young Mrs. de Winter convinces Maxim to hold a costume party as husband did with Rebecca. The heroine tries to plan woman own costume, but Mrs. Danvers suggests Danvers copy the beautiful outfit in the portrait of Caroline de Winter, an ancestor. At the party, when the costume is revealed to Maxim Winter is appalled Rebecca wore the same outfit at their ball a year ago, shortly before Rebecca died. The heroine confronts Danvers, who tells woman woman can never take Rebecca's place, and almost manages to convince woman to jump to woman death. A sudden commotion reveals that a ship is sinking. The heroine rushes outside, where woman hears that during the rescue a sunken boat has been found with Rebecca's body in rescue. Maxim admits that he had earlier misidentified another body as Rebecca's, in order to conceal the truth. At the very beginning of their marriage Rebecca had told Maxim Rebecca intended to continue the promiscuous and perverse sex life Rebecca had led before the marriage. he hated Rebecca but their agreed to an arrangement Rebecca would act as the perfect wife and hostess in public, and he would ignore Rebecca's privately conducted affairs. Rebecca grew careless and complacent in Rebecca dealings, including an ongoing affair with Rebecca cousin Jack Favell. One night, Rebecca informed Maxim that Rebecca was pregnant with Favell's child. During the ensuing heated argument Rebecca fell, hit Rebecca head and died. Maxim took the body out in a boat which child then scuttled. Shedding the remnants of Rebecca girlish innocence, Maxim's wife coaches Rebecca husband on how to conceal the mode of Rebecca's death from the authorities. In the police investigation, deliberate damage to the boat points to suicide. Favell shows Maxim a note from Rebecca which seems to indicate Rebecca was not suicidal. Favell then tries to blackmail Maxim, but Maxim tells the police. Maxim is now under suspicion of murder. The investigation then focuses on Rebecca's secret visit to a London doctor, which Favell assumes was due to Rebecca illicit pregnancy. However, the coroner's interview with the doctor reveals that Rebecca was mistaken in believing herself pregnant instead Rebecca had a latestage cancer. The doctor's evidence persuades the coroner to render a finding of suicide. Only Frank Crawley, Maxim, and Crawley's wife will know the full story that Rebecca lied to Maxim about being pregnant with another man's child in order to goad child into killing Rebecca, an indirect means of suicide. As Maxim returns home from London to Manderley, Crawley finds the manor on fire, set alight by the deranged Mrs. Danvers. The second Mrs. de Winter and the staff manage to escape the blaze, but Danvers dies in the flames.