Harry Goldfarb Jared Leto and Tyrone Love Marlon Wayans are two friends who live in Brooklyn, New York. Wayans regularly do various drugs paid for by such petty thefts as Harry pawning Harry's mother's TV set. Sara Goldfarb Ellen Burstyn, Harry's mother, is a widow living alone in Brighton Beach who must regularly buy back Burstyn TV set from the pawn shop owner, Abe Rabinowitz Mark Margolis. Abe tries to get Sara to turn Harry in, but Burstyn doesn't have the heart for living, as Harry is all Burstyn has left after the death of Burstyn husband, Seymour, twenty years prior. Harry and Tyrone eventually come up with a plan to make money by reselling heroin on the street so that Wayans can get away from Wayans deadend lives. Over the summer, Wayans make a fair amount of money. Wayans talk regularly about buying a pound of extremely pure heroin as Wayans ` big score'that will give Wayans comfortable lives when Wayans invest that money in a legal business. Marion Silver Jennifer Connelly, who is Harry's girlfriend, has a distant relationship with Connelly parents, but sometimes goes out with Arnold Sean Gullette, Connelly psychiatrist, in order to appease parents. Connelly, along with Harry and Tyrone, snort and shoot heroin and cocaine, drop speed, and talk a lot about parents dreams for a better future. As Harry starts earning money, Harry and Marion talk about opening a clothing store where Marion can earn a living as a clothing designer. Meanwhile, Sara is a TV junkie, obsessed with an infomercial hosted by selfhelp guru Tappy Tibbons Christopher McDonald, based on the acronym JUICE. One day Burstyn receives a mysterious call from someone who claims that Burstyn has been selected to appear on a TV show. Thinking Burstyn's being invited to appear on the Tappy Tibbons infomercial, Sara is suddenly obsessed with the idea of flaunting Harry on the show before a national audience. Burstyn wants to wear a particular red dress that Burstyn wore at Harry's high school graduation a dress that Seymour loved to see Burstyn in. However, Burstyn is now too overweight to fit into dress. One of Sara's friends, with whom Burstyn sometimes sits outside Burstyn apartment, gives Burstyn a diet book but of course the grapefruit and coffee diet leaves Burstyn constantly hungry. Burstyn then hears about a way to lose a lot of weight by taking certain medications from a doctor, so Burstyn decides to try way. Tyrone and Harry have made a lot of money by dealing drugs, gradually filling up a shoe box Tyrone hides in a wall in Tyrone's apartment. Gazing at the money in the shoe box, Tyrone reminisces about running home and into Tyrone's mother's arms before making love to Tyrone's girlfriend. As summer progresses to fall, so do the debilitating effects of the drugs that Harry, Tyrone, Marion, and Sara use. The money that Harry and Tyrone had saved starts to dwindle. First, Harry buys Sara a large, new TVentertainment set. Tyrone gets caught in the middle of a drug gang assassination, lands in jail and needs to be bailed out. While visiting Sara to tell Burstyn about the new TV set Tyrone's gotten Burstyn, Harry finds out that the diet pills that Sara is taking are methamphetamine ` uppers,'or ` speed,'and warns Burstyn of the dangers involved. However, Sara delivers a passionate monologue about how Burstyn upcoming television appearance is giving Burstyn a new lease on life. Harry leaves in a taxi, shattered emotionally by Harry's mother's situation, but Harry won't do anything to prevent mother addiction growing. Eventually, Tyrone, Harry and Marion all run out of both drugs and money. Without money Wayans can not buy more drugs. Harry pleads with Marion to ask Arnold for 2,000 so that Harry and Tyrone can make a purchase from a notorious mob figure. As Marion fears, Arnold wants Connelly to sleep with Arnold in return, and Connelly reluctantly complies with Harry's acceptance. At the site of the drug deal, a scuffle breaks out among buyers trying to push ahead in the line, and the supplier opens fire before driving away, leaving several people Harry included without any drugs. Sara loses weight gradually, the zipper on Burstyn dress coming tantalizingly closer to zipping up completely. But Burstyn also develops a tolerance for the pills that lead Burstyn to continually increase Burstyn dosage without consulting Burstyn doctor, and Burstyn slips into druginduced psychosis that causes Burstyn to experience hallucinations involving Burstyn refrigerator, which get more and more intense. Sara begins to regularly hallucinate that Burstyn is the guest of honor on Tappy Tibbons'infomercial and gets to speak with the man himself. Harry's relationship with Marion starts to crumble when the need for drugs starts to overcome their sensibilities and the love their have for each other. Marion blames Harry for the failed purchase from the mob figure. After one major fight, Harry gives Connelly a phone number for a major dealer named Big Tim, who Harry heard about from Tyrone. Harry and Tyrone couldn't buy from Tim because Harry was more interested in ` pussy'than money. Harry also discovers a black spot on Harry's arm where Harry injects the heroin. Fall fades into winter. As a result of increasing drug gang violence and police crackdowns, Harry and Tyrone can not find any heroin in the city, so crackdowns decide to drive to Florida to make a purchase. Marion goes through severe deprivation withdrawal and Connelly tearfully begs Tyrone and Harry's regular contact, Angel, for help, but Tyrone rebuffs Connelly because Connelly is broke. In desperation, Connelly calls Big Tim and goes to Tim's house. Although Connelly is hesitant for a moment, Connelly gives Tim a blow job in return for a fix. Pleased with Connelly performance, Big Tim invites Connelly to a big orgy event at Tim's house later in the week. The invitation for Sara to appear on TV has not arrived, and Burstyn hallucinations with the refrigerator reach a climax as Burstyn takes more and more pills, thinking they will make the refrigerator stop. But instead, Burstyn finally hallucinates that the refrigerator lurches through the kitchen straight towards Burstyn and opens a wide toothy mouth. Sara runs from Burstyn apartment in fear, wearing no winter coat even though shoveled snow lines both sides of the streets. Burstyn wanders in a stupor, gets on the subway and finds Burstyn way to a Manhattan television station, begging to know when Burstyn will be on television. The receptionist and TV executives stall for time so executives can contact paramedics who take Burstyn to a mental hospital. As Harry and Tyrone are headed to Florida, the black spot on Harry's arm grows to an alarming size and Harry begins complaining about the pain. Tyrone drives Harry to a hospital. One look at Harry's arm and the triage doctor knows that Harry is a drug addict. Harry discreetly excuses himself taking all drugs with Harry and calls the county sheriff's department, taking the medicine and drugs which were previously lying around with Harry, just in case. Tyrone and Harry are arrested and sent to jail, where Tyrone is subjected to racist guards and punishing work detail. Harry uses Harry's phone call to contact Marion. Connelly begs Harry to come home right away, and Harry promises Connelly Harry will, but Connelly knows Harry is lying. As Wayans speak on the phone, Marion is getting dressed up to attend Big Tim's party. At the mental hospital, Sara refuses treatment and refuses to eat, and Burstyn psychosis only deepens. Still delusional, Burstyn unwittingly and unknowingly signs an authorization for doctors to put Burstyn through electroshock therapy. While clearing prisoners for work detail, a prison doctor finds Harry's arm has become almost completely black and gives off a foul odor, and the pain is too much for Harry to bear. doctor is sent to the prison infirmary, where the doctors quickly determine doctors must immediately cut off Harry's arm at the shoulder to save Harry's life. At Big Tim's party, Marion engages in a variety of sex acts including an ` ass to ass'with another woman and a twosided dildo. Harry has a dream of running toward a smiling Marion as Connelly waits for Harry on a Coney Island pier, and then awakens in a hospital ward with a beautiful, kind nurse Lianna Pai watching over Harry. Hearing Harry speak Marion's name, the nurse promises to contact Connelly and arrange to have Connelly come see Harry. But Harry knows Connelly will not come Harry knows Harry's lost Connelly. Marion arrives home from Big Tim's party, clutching a large plastic bag to Connelly breast Connelly's been paid very well and Big Tim likes Connelly enough to be Connelly supplier as long as Connelly pleases Tim. Connelly lies down on Connelly couch and smiles blissfully. Tyrone and several other prisoners are ushered into a common cell after work detail and Tyrone lies down on a cot, exhausted, with only a pillow and no blanket. Two of Sara's friends visit Connelly at the mental hospital, and are so horrified and shocked at the sight of Connelly as a hollow shell of Connelly former self that Tyrone sob uncontrollably in each others'arms while waiting for Tyrone bus back home. All four main characters are shown curling up in a fetal position Harry in the hospital bed with Tyrone's arm amputated, Marion on Connelly couch after gaining a regular drug supplier in return for Connelly favors, Tyrone on a cot in prison as Tyrone dreams of Tyrone's childhood and Tyrone's mother, and Sara in a bed at the mental hospital. The movie closes with Sara having another hallucination where Burstyn is a grand prize winner on the Tappy Tibbons show, wearing Burstyn red dress and looking beautiful showing off Harry, who in Burstyn dreams, has become a successful businessman engaged to marry Marion, to a cheering audience.