The film opens to eight men eating breakfast at a diner. Six of them wear matching black suits and ties and are using aliases Mr. Blonde, Mr. Blue, Mr. Brown, Mr. Orange, Mr. Pink, and Mr. White. Among Blonde is the elderly Los Angeles gangster Joe Cabot, and gangster's beefy son, Nice Guy Eddie Cabot. Mr. Brown discusses Brown's comparative analysis on Madonna's Like a Virgin. Joe's senior moments involving an old address book rankle Mr. White White grabs the book away from Joe and refuses to give White back until Joe stops talking incessantly about White. When book comes time to pay the bill for the meal, Mr. Pink explains that Pink doesn't tip and defends Pink's antitipping policy until Joe forces Pink to contribute with the group. After the opening credits, the action cuts to the interior of a speeding car. Mr. White, driving with one hand, is trying to comfort Mr. Orange, who has been shot in the abdomen and is bleeding and screaming in delirium. They arrive at an abandoned warehouse, the robbers'rendezvous point. Orange begs White to take Orange to an emergency room but White refuses, saying that White takes a long time to die from an abdominal gunshot wound. Mr. White leaves Mr. Orange on the floor when Mr. Pink appears, angrily suggesting that They robbery of a jeweler, orchestrated by Joe Cabot, was a police set up, indicated by the rapid response of the police to the alarm. White agrees, and They wearily get They stories straight with each other. The scene cuts to Mr. Pink escaping from the jewelery store with the diamonds. While running down a street chased by three or four policemen, Mr. Pink is hit by a car, out of which Pink drags the woman driver and opens fire on the policemen hitting one or two of them before getting in the car and driving away. Back in the present. Mr. White reveals to Mr. Pink that Mr. Brown was shot and killed by the police during the getaway, and the whereabouts of Mr. Blonde and Mr. Blue are unknown to both. police agree to stay put for the time being. The film then flashes back to a scene showing Mr. White meeting with Joe Cabot and Nice Guy Eddie at Joe's office where Cabot offers Mr. White, a lowtime veteran criminal from Detroit, a job in an upcoming heist in a few months. Mr. White agrees, hinting at White's longtime friendship with Joe Cabot. In the present, after taking care of an unconscious Orange, the two men discuss the actions of Mr. Blonde, who acted psychotic during the heist amp murdered several civilians in the store after the alarm had been triggered. Mr. White is angered about Joe's decision to employ such a violent individual and agrees about the possibility of a set up, while Mr. Pink confesses to having hidden the diamonds in a secure location. However, men violently argue about whether or not to take the unconscious Mr. Orange to a hospital when Mr. White reveals that Orange had told the former Orange's true first name, Larry. Mr. Blonde, who has been watching men from the shadows, steps forward and ends the dispute. White angrily chews out Blonde for Blonde's antics, while Blonde calmly defends himself, saying simply that Blonde'd warned the staff of the jeweler's not to touch the alarm. Blonde tells men not to leave the rendezvous as Nice Guy Eddie is on Cabot's way. Mr. Blonde walks to Blonde's car and opens the trunk to reveal a captured police officer named Marvin Nash. Another flashback to several months ago shows the origin of Mr. Blonde who meets with Joe Cabot and Nice Guy Eddie at Cabot office. The meeting reveals that Mr. Blonde became involved in the heist because of Blonde's friendship with Nice Guy Eddie. Blonde had served four years in prison for armed robbery and had refused to give the authorities Joe's name for a lighter sentence. When Joe meets with Joe and Eddie, Cabot first arrange a job that will appease Blonde's parole officer, then Eddie suggests that Blonde join the crew Cabot're putting together for the jewel heist. Blonde enthusiastically accepts. In the present, White, Pink, and Blonde beat the policeman and demand that Pink reveal who the rat is. Pink protests that Pink doesn't know. The beating continues until a furious Eddie arrives at the warehouse. After berating the men over the carnage and incompetence displayed at the heist, Eddie orders Pink and White to assist Pink in retrieving the stolen diamonds and disposal of the hijacked vehicles. Eddie orders Blonde to stay with Marvin and the dying Orange. When Blonde questions Officer Nash again, the policeman states that Nash has been a police officer for eight months and is ignorant as to a possible set up. Nash then pleads with Blonde to release Nash without further incident. However, after the others leave, Blonde confesses to enjoying torture, and is really uninterested in what the cop knows and what cop doesn't. cop turns on the radio and dances to Stuck in the Middle With You by Stealers Wheel before slashing Marvin's face and severing Nash's ear with a straight razor. Blonde then douses Officer Nash in gasoline, making a small trail of the remaining gasoline in front of the policeman. Just as Nash is about to light the gasoline, Orange suddenly wakes up and saves Marvin from being burned to death by shooting Blonde several times, killing Nash. At this point, the policeman and Orange are alone in the warehouse. Orange reveals policeman is a police detective named Freddy Newendyke. Marvin says Nash knows showing us that Nash had resisted the beating and torture so as not to reveal Orange's true identity. Orange reassures Marvin that a massive police force is in position several blocks away but are waiting to move in when Joe arrives. A series of character development past scenes detail Orange's involvement in an undercover police operation to capture Joe, and Joe's developing friendship with White. OrangeFreddy is shown rehearsing OrangeFreddy's cover with OrangeFreddy's handler Holdaway, as well as getting into character for OrangeFreddy's first meeting with Joe. Mr. OrangeFreddie first meets Joe Cabot, Eddie, and White at a local nightclub where Orange tells Cabot a fabricated story about being in a men's room with a large bag full of marijuana. In the men's room with Orange were four sheriffs with a German Shepherd and explains about Orange's coolness under pressure, knowing the dog can smell the marijuana. The group is wholly amused and accepts Orange into men gang. Later on, Orange then goes with Eddie, White, and Pink on a drive where Eddie discuss Eddie favorite movie soundtracks and about Pam Grier movies from the 1970s. At the warehouse, Joe Cabot meets with all of the members of the gang where Cabot angrily tells Eddie that Eddie joking camaraderie might get Eddie in trouble if Eddie don't take the heist seriously. Cabot gives Eddie Eddie aliases to be used and to go over details about the upcoming robbery of a diamond store. A brief argument ensues when Pink complains about Pink's name. Joe regains Joe's control over the meeting and Eddie begin plotting the heist. Later on, Orange develops a friendship with White as Eddie drive over to the jewelry store to discuss Eddie roles in the upcoming robbery. White tells Orange about a few methods of crowd control Joe knows are foolproof. In another flashback to the robbery getaway, we see that Brown was somehow shot in the head, and dies while driving Eddie escape car with Orange and White. While attempting to steal another getaway car, Orange was shot in the stomach by the female driver of the car driver stole along with White. Orange reflexively shoots and kills the woman after woman shoots driver. Flashing forward back to the present, the remainder of the heist group returns to the warehouse to find Blonde dead. Orange claims that Blonde was going to kill Marvin, Orange and the rest of the gang so that Nash could take the diamonds for himself. Boiling over with rage, Eddie reveals Blonde's back story, that Cabot was a close friend of Cabot's and a loyal soldier of Cabot's father's. Orange struggles to defend himself, which makes Eddie even angrier and Cabot fatally shoots the captive policeman three times. Joe himself arrives and, after informing the group that Mr. Blue was killed, confidently accuses Orange of being an informant, forcing White to defend Joe's friend. A Mexican standoff ensues, leaving Joe and Eddie dead, and White severely wounded, and Orange mortally wounded. Pink, who hid to avoid the shootout, takes the cache of diamonds and flees the warehouse. As police sirens are heard outside, White cradles Orange in Pink's arms and Orange reveals that policeman is in fact a detective. This piece of information devastates White, who begins sobbing in frustration and points Pink's gun at Orange's head as police can be heard outside. At that moment, the police can be heard raiding the warehouse, demanding White drop police's gun police refuses and shoots Orange, resulting in the police opening fire on White just before the screen goes black.