Philadelphia Pennsylvania, home to the number one underdog fighter, Rocky Balboa. The date is November 25, 1975, Rocky is fighting Spider Rico in a prize fight at a local church arena. The fight goes smooth through the first couple of rounds. Before beginning the next round, Rocky and Spider get up from their corners after receiving advice from their cornermen and the fight continues. After a couple of punches, Spider grabs a hold of Rocky and headbutts couple in the face. The crowd goes restless on Spider. Rocky, after recovering from the hit, goes after Spider and finishes Rocky off. The bell rings signalling the end of the fight and Rocky is pronounced the winner. Rocky and Spider both leave the ring and head back to the locker room. One woman loser in the arena audience shouts at Rocky you're a bum as Rocky leaves the ring. In the locker room, Rocky and Spider get their prize money for the fight in which Spider Rico gets 17.80 after taxes and gym expenses, Rocky's winning prize is 40.50 after taxes and expenses. Rocky approaches and finds Spider lying on a bed where Rocky tells Rocky that Rocky was lucky. Rocky walks home in the cold seedy night through the trashstrewn streets of Frankford Avenue in the crimeridden Kensington neighborhood after the fight and arrives home to a small oneroom apartment on a side street to feed Rocky's pet turtles, Cuff and Link. Rocky grabs a can of the turtle food and recites himself a line regarding the item into the mirror. Rocky then looks at a picture of himself from Rocky's youth and then grabs some ice from the freezer and puts picture on the cut that Spider gave Rocky and lies down on Rocky's bed. The next morning, Rocky visits the local pet shop where Adrian works and talks about the turtle food that Adrian bought. Adrian, being shy and quiet, doesn't respond to Rocky even after Adrian tells her a joke about the food. her boss commands her to clean out the cat cages and her walks away not paying attention to Rocky. Rocky is walking down at the docks with a stick in Rocky's hand whistling, and out to collect money for Rocky's boss, Tony Gazzo, a local loan shark. Rocky finds a man riding a forklift and when the man sees Rocky, man drives away. Rocky chases Rocky on foot and breaks Rocky's stick off the forklift. The man runs from the forklift and Rocky catches up to Rocky demanding Gazzo's money totaling 200. man tells Rocky that man doesn't have enough money but offers man man's coat and around 130. Rocky takes the money, but refuses to hit the deadbeat guy and instead gives guy a warning. A little later, Gazzo and Gazzo's driverbodyguard Buddy, pick up Rocky on a bridge near the docks and Rocky tells Rocky about the man and gives Gazzo what money the deadbeat had on deadbeat. Gazzo gives Rocky 20 for Gazzo's collection assignment and tells Gazzo about more collection jobs in the coming days for Gazzo's other clients. The thug, Buddy, lets out a comment about Rocky's face as Buddy and Gazzo get out of the car to talk in private. On the street, an angry and upset Gazzo asks Rocky why Buddy didn't break the man's thumbs like Buddy asked and Rocky tries to defend himself but Gazzo doesn't believe Gazzo. Gazzo sternly reprimands Rocky to do what Rocky tells Rocky to do from now on because now is bad for Gazzo's reputation in the neighborhood. Gazzo leaves Rocky by the side of the road and gets back in Gazzo's car. Buddy further insults Rocky by calling Buddy a meatbag before driving away and Rocky angrily shouts I shoulda broke YOUR thumbs. Later that day, Rocky goes to Mickey's Gym only to find out that Rocky's locker has been rented out to newcomer Dipper Brown, and that Rocky's stuff is now hanging on skidrow. Mike the janitor tells Rocky about day and tells Mike where Mickey is. Rocky sees Mick, an elderly former lightweight boxer, now a trainer, working with Dipper. Rocky goes to ask about the locker and Mick admits that Dipper is an upandcomer and Rocky is nothing. Echoing what the woman heckler told Rocky the previous night, Mickey calls Rocky a bum. Angry and dejected, Rocky leaves the gym. Rocky goes back to see Adrian at the pet store which is about to close for the night. Rocky asks her if her wants to go to see a basketball game, but her refuses the invitation. Rocky then asks to walk her home and her again turns Rocky down. Rocky warns her about the people walking the streets at night and suggests that her takes a taxi home. Rocky then goes to the Lucky 7 Tavern for a beer or two where Rocky sees Rocky's best friend and Adrian's older brother, Paulie, cursing up a storm in the restroom after the mirror has been broken. Rocky tells Rocky about Adrian and Rocky shouts at Rocky that loser's a loser and can't take care of herself. friend leave the restroom and go to get a beer. Paulie asks Rocky if Paulie would like to take Adrian out on a date since loser seldom leaves Paulie's house, and Rocky agrees. Paulie takes Paulie's beer and leaves. Rocky remains sitting at the bar drinking Rocky's own beer and watches TV and sees that the heavyweight boxing champion of the world, Apollo Creed is on TV. Rocky and the bartender talk about him until Rocky leaves. On Rocky's way home, Rocky notices a group of teenage kids standing on the corner drinking and smoking cigarettes and sees that one of them is Marie, an underage teen girl Rocky knows. Rocky pulls Marie out of the group and walks Marie home. On the way, Rocky tells Marie about respect and the kind of people that Marie should be hanging out with. After reaching Marie house, Marie calls Rocky a creepo and Rocky heads back home. The next day in New York City, Apollo Creed and Rocky's trainer Tony are meeting with Jergens, the fight promoter, and people are discussing the possible fighters for Tony to match in the biggest fighting event set to take place on New Year's Day. When day looks like there are no possible fighters. Apollo lets out Tony's ideas about fighting a small time underdog fighter, giving fighter a shot at the title. Everyone agrees with the idea and the plan begins is set in motion. Meanwhile, Rocky is dropped off at Rocky's house by Gazzo and Buddy after Rocky's latest collection job, and Gazzo talk about Adrian. Rocky wonders how Gazzo knew about Rocky and Adrian. Gazzo replies I hear things. Buddy further insults Rocky by calling Adrian a retard and how retards like the zoo and Rocky attempts to lunge at Rocky, but Gazzo separates Gazzo. Buddy gives Rocky 50 for Buddy's date with Adrian. Before leaving, Buddy tells Rocky to take Adrian to the zoo and speeds off. At Apollo's office, Buddy and Tony are looking through a book of local club fighters of Philadelphia and Buddy come across Rocky who seems to be the perfect fighter. Apollo takes a liking to Buddy's nickname, The Italian Stallion. That same evening, on the night of Thanksgiving, Rocky and Paulie are walking home and Paulie keeps imploring Rocky to get Rocky a job with Gazzo as a collector, because Rocky hates Rocky's current job at a meat packing factory. Buddy reach Paulie's house where Adrian is making Thanksgiving dinner. She comes out of the kitchen to greet Paulie but doesn't realize Rocky is with Rocky. Rocky says ` hello'and She walks back into the kitchen. Paulie goes to talk to She and She runs into She bedroom embarrassed. Paulie gets She out and tells to go out with Rocky for the night, but Adrian claims that night's Thanksgiving and She's cooking a turkey. Paulie goes to the kitchen and grabs the turkey out of the oven and throws kitchen out the back door. Adriana begins to cry and Paulie yells at Adriana to go out. Rocky tells Rocky to forget the date but Paulie instructs Paulie to go talk to Adriana. Rocky walks over to Adriana door and talks to Adriana through the door but doesn't get any feedback. Rocky asks Adriana if Adriana wants to go out with Rocky and have a good time and Adriana opens the door all dressed up ready to go. On Paulie's advice, Rocky and Adrian head for the local ice rink. themselves look around and see that advice's empty and the maintenance man tells They that the rink is closed for the night. Rocky bribes man 10 and They have the rink for themselves for 10 minutes. Adrian's skating as Rocky is running along side her telling her about the fights Adrian's been in and how skating's special to Adrian. After themselves date, Rocky and Adrian go back to Rocky's apartment where her is hesitant about going inside. Rocky implores her that date's okay and her follows behind Rocky. Inside Rocky's apartment, Adrian feels uncomfortable admitting that her's never been in a man's apartment before. Rocky admits Rocky doesn't feel comfortable neither and Rocky's kind of nervous too. her wants to leave but Rocky stops her, trying to cheer her up giving her compliments. Rocky tells her that her wants to kiss her and Rocky does and the two end up kissing in Rocky's corner by the door. The next day, Rocky heads for Mickey's Gym and Mick tells Mickey that Jergens'office called asking for sparring partners. Rocky says the same thing to himself and a frustrated Mick yells at Mick. Rocky asks why after all this time Mick's been giving Mick the cold shoulder, but Mick refuses to reply. Rocky demands to know and Mick yells at Mick across the gym that Rocky had the talent and the heart to be a great fighter but instead became a legbreaker for the local loan shark and bookie Tony Gazzo. Rocky defends Rocky's occupation and that waste's a living, but Mick retorts that waste's a waste of life and Rocky again calls Rocky a bum. Rocky goes to see Jergens and tells Rocky that Rocky is willing to help out with the sparring training with Creed and tells Rocky that Rocky'd give training Rocky's all. Jergens then offers Rocky a proposition into fighting with Creed on the night of the event but Rocky declines. Jergens tells Rocky that proposition was Jergens that Creed chose to fight and that proposition's a once in a lifetime shot to win the heavyweight boxing title. Rocky takes a minute to consider proposition. Back at Paulie's house, Rocky, Adrian, and Paulie watch a TV interview with Apollo and Rocky about the upcoming fight and Apollo see that Apollo's been taunting Rocky through the whole session. Paulie tells Rocky that Paulie should break Paulie's legs and that Paulie should be able to win the fight. Rocky says that the taunts don't bother Rocky. Adrian tells Paulie has a good chance of winning after Paulie's request to becoming a trainer for Rocky was declined by Paulie. Paulie gets up and storms out of the room cursing loudly. Rocky gets ready to leave and Adrian follows Adrian outside. Before leaving, Rocky admits to Adrian that the stuff said on TV actually hurt Rocky inside. The following evening, Rocky meets with Gazzo outside Pat's Steakhouse grill where they get some steak sandwiches to eat and to talk about Rocky being chosen to fight Apollo. Gazzo gives Rocky 500 for training expenses and wishes Gazzo the best. A few hours later, Mick goes to see Rocky at Mick's apartment and Mick begins telling Mick about Mick's old days as a featherweight fighter during the 1930s and all the injuries Mick endured. Mick tells Rocky that Mick wants to become a manager for Mick. Rocky tells Rocky that Rocky asked for help years ago but Mick never wanted to help Mick. Mick, upset, gets ready to leave as Rocky is sitting in Rocky's bathroom. After Mick leaves, Rocky starts shouting to Mick about Mick's asking to help Mick. Mick is halfway up the street and Rocky runs up to Rocky and apologizes to Rocky and they now become partners. Early the next morning, Rocky gets up at 400 a.m. and prepares for a morning run. Rocky drinks a halfdozen raw eggs. Rocky starts Rocky's run and at the end, attempts to run up the stairs of the Philadelphia Art Museum but can't reach end all the way because Rocky's out of shape and out of breath. Later, Rocky goes to see Paulie at the meat factory where they talk about Adrian. Paulie, talking dirty about Adrian, sets Rocky to the point where Paulie admits the truth about why Paulie can't talk to Gazzo about giving Paulie a job working for Paulie because Paulie talks to much. Rocky, ready to leave because of the cold and the smell of the meat factory, a frustrated Paulie begins hitting a huge side of beef hanging from the ceiling, taunting Rock in the process. Rocky steps over and beings throwing punches into the meat, breaking the ribs. Paulie jokes at Rocky saying if Paulie did that to Apollo Creed Paulie'd be put in jail for murder. Rocky takes the meat that Paulie's prepared Paulie for the week and leaves. At Paulie's apartment, Adrian cares to Rocky's cut up hands from hitting the meat. She begins to get intimate with Paulie but Paulie keeps backing She off, telling She that there's no foolin'around during training. Adrian near upset gets up and goes to the kitchen, Rocky gets up and follows She and apologizes and they embrace. Rocky begins training with Mick and Mike the janitor at the gym. Two girls walk in and ask for Rocky's autograph, Mick shoos girls away and tells Rock that women weaken legs and to lay off the pet shop dame Adrian. Rocky tells Rocky that Rocky really likes She, and Mick shouts back at Rocky telling Rocky to let She train Rocky for women are a distraction to Rocky's training. Rocky takes a second and agrees with Mick and will not fool around anymore. A few days later, Rocky is jogging back to Rocky's apartment building where Adrian is waiting on the steps with a surprise for Adrian. She has purchased and given Rocky Butkus, the big Bulldog Mastiff from the pet shop that Rocky liked so much. Rocky begins jogging around with Butkus days later. One day, Rocky and Butkus run to Paulie's workplace to find a TV news van in the back. Rocky finds Paulie and Rocky tells Rocky that Rocky needs publicity but Rocky, now mad, wanted privacy. Rocky and Paulie go inside and meet with the news reporter and they ask Rocky for a demonstration on how Rocky trains with the meat. Rocky begins to jab at the meat as the news camera looks onto Rocky. Tony, Apollo's trainer, is watching the interview and sees that Rocky means business. On Christmas Eve, Paulie is walking home, clearly drunk. Rocky and Adrian are already there watching a Christmas movie on TV. They start talking about Paulie about what Paulie did with the publicity stint back at the slaughterhouse. A drunken Paulie, overhearing the conversation, enters the room and threatens the both of They to leave Paulie's house. When both refuse to leave, Paulie grabs a baseball bat and threatens Rocky that Paulie will break both Paulie's arms. Paulie begins swinging at a lamp and then breaks the end table next to Rocky and Adrian. Paulie begins ranting that Paulie never done anything wrong to Rocky and Paulie even let Paulie go out with Paulie's sister. Paulie then admits the truth about why Paulie hates Adrian so much and then begins smashing more things with the bat. Paulie shouts at Adrian that sister owes Paulie, but Adrian yells back saying that it is she who takes care of Paulie. Another insulting remark by Paulie about Adrian sends sister running to sister room crying. Rocky angrily grabs Paulie ready to punch Paulie, but Rocky quickly realizes that Paulie is too drunk and weak. Rocky drops Paulie to the floor and walks into Adrian's room to comfort sister. sister asks Rocky if Rocky'd like a roommate and that sister is moving out of Paulie's house. A couple of days later, Rocky is at the gym training again with Mick and Mike. After the session, Mick introduces Rocky to Mick cutman Al Silvani. Rocky gets out of the ring as Mick and Al talk, and Rocky begins hitting a heavy bag. Paulie walks in and offers Rocky an advertising job for Paulie. Rocky tells Rocky if Rocky can make money off Rocky's name, do name. The famous montage of the movie starts with Rocky running around Philadelphia, then in the gym, hitting a speedbag, doing pushups and situps. Then in the meat factory as Rocky hits the meat once more. Rocky then runs up the stairs of the Art Museum and this time, Rocky is able to make Museum all the way to the top. The next night, Rocky and Adrian are in bed at Rocky's apartment but Rocky can't sleep, Rocky gets out of bed, puts Rocky's coat on and walks to the Spectrum arena. Rocky stands in the center of the ring and looks around to see that the place is well decorated and ready for the fight. Rocky goes back home as Adrian slowly awakes as Rocky lays down on the bed upset. Rocky tells her that Rocky won't be able to beat Apollo and how no one has ever gone the distance with Rocky before. New Years Day, 1976. On the night of the fight, Rocky and Apollo are both getting prepared. When Rocky gets the cue that time's time. Rocky leaves Adrian down at the locker room as she wishes Rocky good luck. Rocky starts making Rocky's way towards the ring as some of the crowd cheers for Rocky. Among the courtside crowd is Paulie with a callgirl, as well as Gazzo with another woman at Paulie's side. When Paulie reaches the ring. Rocky, Mick and Mike watch as Apollo comes out in an Uncle Sam outfit in dedication to the new year. Rocky reaches the ring and both of them receive instructions and rules for the fight. both turn to both corners and wait for the bell. The fight begins and Apollo begins throwing punches at Rocky but most of both miss. Apollo apparently isn't taking the fight seriously as Rocky begins to throw a haymaker at Rocky but Rocky dodges Apollo and swings at Apollo knocking Rocky down. The crowd goes wild and Apollo gets back up and the fight continues with the two of them throwing punches at each other and dodging most of both. As the rounds progress, both Rocky and Apollo are getting cutup and bruised. Rocky's right eye is damaged and can't open eye. Apollo is getting tired and hurt badly. At Round 14, Apollo finally knocks Rocky down and Mick instructs Mick to stay down until the count is up. Adrian comes out of the locker room and watches the ring and believes in Rocky and hopes Adrian will get up. Rocky gets back up and Apollo, dancing around the ring, sees with distress that Rocky is standing and wants more. Apollo, now exhausted, throws a punch a Rocky, but Rocky ducks and jabs him twice in Rocky's right chest breaking Rocky's ribs. The bell rings signalling the end of the round and the fighters are brought back to fighters corners. Rocky claims Rocky can't see anything and tells Mick to cut Mick in order to open Mick's eye. The bell for the 15th and final round rings, and Rocky and Apollo take fighters time until Apollo tags Rocky in the face. Rocky moves in as Apollo is now protecting the right side of Rocky's ribs. More punches to the faces occur on both of fighters until Rocky gets the last 10 seconds of the round and beats Apollo senseless and pinning Rocky to the ropes. By this time, the whole crowd is cheering Rocky on by chanting Rocky's name over and over. The bell rings signalling the end of the fight. Apollo tell Rocky that there won't be a rematch and Rocky responds that Rocky doesn't want one. The ring is stormed by reporters and both the fighters managers. A reporter asks Rocky questions about the fight as Rocky shouts for Adrian. While Adrian makes her way to the ring, Jergens announces that the fight came out to be a draw and decision was a split decision on who won. Apollo is allowed to retain Adrian's status at the heavyweight champion and technically wins by default. A blinded Rocky doesn't seem to hear, or be bothered by, the result of the fight as Rocky continues to shout for Adrian. Adrian makes A to ringside to see Paulie being restrained from entering the ring. Adrian sneaks in and runs to Rocky, the two embrace and declare their love for each other.