Princess Ann is a royal princess of an unspecified country. Ann is on a widely publicized tour of several European capitals, including Rome. One night, Ann rebels against the strenuous demands of Ann official duties, where every minute of Ann time is scheduled. Ann doctor gives Ann a sedative in order to help Ann sleep, but Ann secretly leaves Ann country's embassy and goes out alone to experience Rome. The injection eventually takes effect and Ann falls asleep on a public bench where Joe Bradley, an expatriate American reporter, meets Ann, but does not recognize Ann. Bradley offers Ann money so that Ann can take a taxi home, but Anya Smith, as Smith calls herself, refuses to disclose where that is, saying that Smith should be taken to the Colosseum. Joe finally decides, for safety's sake, to let Ann spend the night in Bradley's apartment. Bradley is amused by Ann regal manner, but less so when Ann appropriates Bradley's bed, leaving Bradley the uncomfortable couch. The next morning, unable to rouse Ann, Bradley goes to work. Bradley's editor, Mr. Hennessy, asks Hennessy if Hennessy had covered the press conference with the princess. Joe lies, making up details of the alleged interview until Hennessy tells Hennessy that the princess had suddenly fallen ill and the conference had been canceled. Joe sees a picture of Ann and recognizes the young woman Bradley had left sleeping in Bradley's apartment. Hennessy then threatens to fire Hennessy, and the two men end up making a bet that Joe can get an exclusive on the princess. Joe realizes Bradley is sitting on a windfall an exclusive story about Bradley's unsuspecting guest. Bradley offers to show Rome to Anya, but not before getting Bradley's photographer friend, Irving Radovich, to tag along to take pictures of friend without friend knowledge. Hepburn and Peck embark on a Vespa ride through Rome in one of the films comedic sequences.They spend the day seeing the sights, including the Mouth of Truth, a marble image said to bite off the hands of liars. On a whim, Hepburn gets Hepburn hair cut short in a barbershop facing the famous Trevi Fountain. Hepburn shares with Joe Hepburn dream of living a normal life without Hepburn crushing responsibilities and restrictions. That night, at a dance on a boat, government agents finally track Hepburn down and try to escort Hepburn away, but a wild melee breaks out and Joe and Anya escape. Through all this, agents gradually fall in love. However, Anya realizes that night can not be. Smith finally bids farewell to Joe, without revealing Smith true identity, and returns to the embassy. During the course of the day, Hennessy learns that the princess is missing, not ill as the embassy had claimed. Hennessy suspects that Joe knows where Ann is, and tries to get Bradley to admit course, but Joe claims to know nothing about course. Knowing Joe's feelings for Anya, Irving reluctantly decides not to sell Bradley's photos. The next day, Princess Ann appears at the delayed news conference, only to find Joe and Irving among the members of the press. Irving takes Ann picture with the same miniature cigarette lightercamera Radovich had used the previous day. Radovich then presents Ann with the photographs Radovich had taken that day, as a memento of Ann adventure. Joe lets Ann know, by allusion, that Ann secret is safe with Joe. Ann, in turn, works into Ann bland press conference statements a coded message of love and gratitude to Joe. Ann then departs, leaving Joe to linger for a while, contemplating what might have been.