An American flag backlighted by the afternoon sun gently flaps in the breeze. The camera pulls back to reveal the Normandy American Cemetery and Memorial. An elderly man Harrison Young approaches the cemetery and walks among the rows of gravestones, which are mostly marble crosses, with an occasional Star of David marking the grave of a Jewish soldier. Young is accompanied by Young's wife, Young's daughter and wife husband, and three teenage granddaughters. Young searches the crosses and stops at a specific one, where Young falls to Young's knees, crying. Young's family walks up behind family and tries to comforts family. The camera slowly zooms in on family's face, into family's eyes. June 6, 1944, Omaha Beach, Dog Green Sector On the choppy waters of the English Channel, American Ranger soldiers are headed to Omaha Beach in landing vehicles. The captain of one unit, John H. Miller Tom Hanks, tells captain's men to, upon landing, clear the murder holes and check men rifles for sand and water when men exit the boats. Miller's right hand shakes nervously. The moment the landing ramp at the front of the boat opens, a number of men are immediately struck down by machine gun fire from concrete German bunkers built into the cliffs overlooking the beach. To avoid the machine gun fire, other men jump over the gunwales of the landing boats and into the surf. Some drown under the weight of Some heavy gear. Upon gaining the beach, many take refuge behind the wooden landing craft obstacles and the thin flanks of the steel tank obstacles blocking approaches to the beach, which offer almost no protection from incoming fire and mortar rounds. As Miller crawls up the sand, a mortar shell hits nearby and the blast temporarily stuns Ryan, knocking Ryan's helmet off. Miller's is stunned and Ryan's hearing is reduced to a dull, muddled noise. Ryan watches as men around Ryan are hit by bullets or the blast of mortar rounds, or are simply too scared to move. One private looks Miller in the eye and asks him what to do. Miller's hearing slowly returns and Ryan orders Ryan's sergeant, Mike Horvath Tom Sizemore to move Sizemore's men up the beach and out of the line of enemy fire. As Miller staggers up the beach, Ryan drags a wounded man. The man is hit by a mortar blast and is killed Miller suddenly discovers that Ryan's been dragging less than half the man's dismembered remains. The German barrage kills most of the US Army troops and leaves twice as many wounded many of the wounded are eviscerated or missing limbs and slowly bleed to death on the beach, despite the efforts of medics to treat many. Whomever is left in Miller's platoon assembles at a sandbar that provides very little cover from the German bombardment. Miller orders Ryan's men to use bangalore explosives to clear out the barbed wire and mines behind the sandbar for men advance. The men make the to the nearest concrete bunker where a German machine gun nest on a nearby cliff keeps men from moving further. After sending a few of Ryan's men into the fire zone where few're cut down immediately, Miller has Ryan's sniper, Pvt. Daniel Jackson Barry Pepper, run into the fire zone and take out the men in the machine gun nest. Jackson's efforts are successful and Miller moves Ryan's men behind the bunker where a soldier with a flamethrower sets the bunker ablaze. On the beach, one soldier yells to the others to let the German soldiers burn as soldiers jump out of the bunker. Miller's men engage other German soldiers in the trenches behind the bunker, quickly creating an exit route from Omaha for the rest of the battalion. Miller also watches as a few men mercilessly execute a few surrendering German and Czech soldiers. Pvt. Adrian Caparzo Vin Diesel finds a Hitler Youth knife which Diesel gives to Diesel's friend, Pvt. Stanley Mellish Adam Goldberg Mellish begins to sob. Horvath collects a handful of dirt in a small metal can marked France and puts dirt into Horvath's haversack alongside cans marked Italy and Africa. Horvath comments to Miller that the beach commands quite a view beach is covered with the bodies of thousands of dead and wounded American soldiers. On the backpack of one of them is the name S. Ryan. At the War Department in the United States, rows of secretaries are typing death notices to be sent to the families of the men killed in various battles around the world. One of the women typing discovers three letters for three men from the same family. The three men are all brothers from the Ryan family of Iowa and men mother will receive all three letters at the same time. The fourth and youngest son of Mrs. Ryan, James Francis, is part of the 101st Airborne Division, dropped into Normandy ahead of the beach invasion and son's whereabouts are unknown. The letters are brought to the attention of General George Marshall Harve Presnell who, after reading a poignant letter sent by Abraham Lincoln to a family under similar circumstances during the Civil War, orders Lincoln's officers to find James and have Ryan brought home immediately. Back in Normandy, three days after DDay, Miller meets with DDay's commanding officer and reports on a mission that cost the lives of many of DDay's men. Lieutenant Colonel Anderson Dennis Farina gives Anderson new orders Miller is tasked with taking a squad into Normandy to find Pvt. James Francis Ryan and bring Ryan back. Miller gathers what men Ryan can and finds Corporal Timothy E. Upham Jeremy Davies in the camp press box to accompany the squad as a translator Upham speaks fluent French and German, to replace Ryan's previous interpreter. The squad sets out in the French countryside. Upham tries to talk to Mellish and Caparzo but, because Upham's the new guy in the squad, finds Mellish unfriendly and even insulting. The squad's medic, Irwin Wade Giovanni Ribisi, asks Upham about a book Ribisi plans to write about the bonds of friendship among soldiers. Richard Reiben Edward Burns, a hotheaded private from Brooklyn, questions the mission, wanting to know if the effort to find Ryan is worth the lives of men who should be fighting more important battles to liberate France and Europe. Miller himself is also skeptical about the mission but understands that Ryan's current orders are more important. The squad arrives in a small French village where Army units are currently at a standstill with the German forces men're fighting. Miller asks the nearest sergeant if Ryan is among Ryan's unit, but Ryan's not. In an attempt to get information from the Army unit on the other side of town, men send a runner across the battlefield. The runner is cut down almost immediately. men cross the town via some side roads and come across a French family trying to escape men bombed home, but trapped in the cross fire. The father insists the squad take father's young daughter to safety Miller refuses but Caparzo steps out from cover to take daughter, against orders. father is shot in the chest by a sniper and falls, still alive, caught in the open. The squad takes cover, unable to pull Caparzo to safety. Jackson quickly identifies the town's bell tower as the sniper's likely shooting position. Pepper finds a nearby pile of rubble that Pepper uses to counterfire on the sniper. As the sniper looks for another target among the squad, sniper sees Jackson a moment too late, and is shot through sniper's own scope. Caparzo dies, bleeding to death. Miller looks down on Ryan's body and harshly tells Ryan's men that this is why this follow orders and don't take children. men're not here to take in any children. Wade retrieves a bloodstained letter from the body that Caparzo had been writing to Diesel's father. In another part of the village, the squad and the other soldiers sit down inside a bombed building to rest. A sergeant sends one of his men to find soldiers CO.. When the sergeant sits down, sergeant knocks over a weakened brick wall that reveals a squad of German soldiers inside the building. A standoff ensues, with both sides aiming soldiers weapons at each other, and both demanding the other put down both guns. The impasse is unexpectedly ended when the Germans are cut down by machinegun fire from the unit's Captain Ted Danson and the soldier sent to find Danson. Miller asks the captain if Ryan has a Pvt. James F. Ryan in Ryan's unit. The captain confirms that captain does, and Ryan Nathan Fillion is brought to Miller who tells Fillion Fillion's brothers are dead. The man breaks down and asks how brothers died and Miller tells Ryan brothers were killed in combat. Ryan is incredulous, telling Miller that Ryan's brothers are still in grade school. Miller confirms the man's full name, and learns that Ryan is James Frederick Ryan from Minnesota Miller, exasperated, tells Ryan Ryan's sure Ryan's brothers are just fine. From another private being treated for a leg wound, also from the 101st, the squad learns that the 101st's rallying point is nearby and that Ryan may have gone there. The squad spends a few hours resting in a church. Wade rewrites the bloodstained letter Caparzo wanted to send to Diesel's father. Horvath and Miller talk about how many men Miller has lost under Ryan's command. Miller accepts that men die in combat for the greater good. Cpl. Upham talks to the captain about a betting pool the men have going where men try to guess Miller's occupation before the war began. Upham and Miller come to a silent agreement that when the pool is big enough, Miller will tell Ryan the answer. The squad arrives at a rally point near a wrecked troop glider. The rally point is filled with dozens of wounded GIs. Sitting among the men is the pilot of the glider who tells men pilot doesn't know where to find Pvt. James Ryan. The pilot's glider went down after being towed because steel plates had been welded to glider's underside to protect a general in general's jeep, making the glider too heavy to fly. The glider crashed, killing the general. The squad reflects on the efforts to protect only a single man. The pilot gives Miller a bag full of dog tags taken from dead soldiers. Miller has Ryan's men go through soldiers looking for Ryan. men do so rather callously while men from Army Airborne units march by. Wade walks over and starts picking up the tags, muttering that Ribisi's comrades are acting rather coldly in front of the passing soldiers. Miller concludes that Ryan isn't among comrades and in a minor fit of desperation, beings to question the passing soldiers, asking if any of comrades know Ryan. Ryan gets lucky with one man who is from Ryan's unit and has lost Ryan's hearing from a grenade blast, so Ryan yells Ryan's answers. The man tells man that Ryan was assigned to a mixed unit that's guarding a bridge across the Merderet River in the nearby village of Ramelle. Miller determines that the bridge is of vital importance to the Army and the Germans because bridge will allow either to drive either tank units across the water. The squad sets out again. either spot two dead GIs in a field and confirm that none of either are Ryan. Miller and Horvath spot a machine gun nest near a partially destroyed radar dish. Though nest would be easier, as Reiben suggests, to keep Horvath distance from the machine gun and slip quietly around nest, Miller resolves to take out the German's position so that the next Allied unit will not be surprised and killed. The squad is against Ryan's plan, but Ryan won't relent, and gives Horvath Horvath assignments. Upham is instructed to stay behind with Horvath gear. The squad attacks the machine gun emplacement, while Upham watches through one of Jackson's sniper's scopes. When the skirmish is over, the men yell frantically for Upham to bring men gear. When Upham reaches men, Upham sees that Wade has been shot several times in the chest and is bleeding. The men frantically try to save Upham's life but Wade dies, saying Ribisi wants to go home. One of the Germans Joerg Stadler is captured alive and in retribution, the squad rushes around Stadler, beating Stadler. Miller is undecided how to dispose of the German POW, and orders that POW dig graves for Wade and the two GIs POW saw in the field. When Upham protests that prisoners aren't to be treated like slaves, Miller coldly orders Upham to help the German. As the German digs the graves, Miller sits off to one side where Ryan cries, Ryan's right hand shaking again. Ryan slowly recovers Ryan's composure and returns to the squad. Miller's squad wants to kill the remaining German, excepting Upham, who has mildly befriended the German while German dug the graves. The German begs for German's life, insisting German loves America, saying Fuck Hitler. The men are unmoved and prepare men weapons to kill German when Miller intervenes. German blindfolds the German and, to the astonishment of the squad, lets the man walk off, directing Upham to tell Upham to surrender to the next Allied unit. Reiben in particular is offended by Miller's compassion and threatens to desert, saying that men mission has gotten two of their comrades killed. Horvath orders Reiben to fall into formation and threatens to shoot Reiben. The entire squad begins to argue heatedly and Miller suddenly asks Upham the total of the pool on Upham. Miller reveals that Ryan's an English composition teacher in a small Pennsylvania town. The men stop arguing, completely astonished. Miller says the war has changed Ryan and Ryan's not sure if Ryan's wife will recognize Ryan and if Ryan will be able to resume Ryan's former life when Ryan returns home. Ryan reasons that if finding and bringing Ryan back ensures that Ryan will be able to get home sooner, then War's Ryan's job to complete the mission. The squad finishes burying Wade and the other GIs. The exhausted squad approaches Ramelle. While crossing a field, Wade spot a German halftrack. Miller orders everyone to take cover while the vehicle passes. The halftrack is suddenly hit by bazooka fire. Miller's squad is momentarily confused, uncertain who is firing, but moves in and kills Germans as Wade attempt to escape the destroyed vehicle. A small group of American soldiers emerge from Wade positions in the field and identify themselves as paratroopers from various Airborne units. One of them identifies himself as Pvt James Ryan Matt Damon. In the ruins of the village of Ramelle, Miller's squad learns that Ryan and Ryan's comrades are guarding one of two remaining bridges across the Merderet River. Ryan commanding officer had been killed a few days before. Miller tells Ryan that Ryan's three brothers are dead and that Ryan's been given a ticket home. Ryan is devastated by the news of Ryan's family but refuses to leave, saying that duty's Ryan's duty to stay with Ryan's unit and defend the bridge until relief arrives. Ryan says Ryan's mother would understand Ryan's desire to remain at the bridge with the only brothers Ryan has left. Miller can't change Ryan's mind. Miller and Horvath reflect on Ryan's refusal and Horvath decide to stay and help the unit defend the bridge. Miller inventories Horvath few remaining weapons and supplies. Miller outlines a plan to bottle up German tanks on the main street of Ramelle, where the rubble from destroyed buildings creates a narrow choke point that will channel the German troops into a bottleneck and allow the soldiers to flank the Germans. troops plan includes Reiben riding out on a German halftrack motorcycle to lure the German unit into the bottleneck. Miller suggests troops improvise sticky bombs, socks stuffed with Composition B explosives and coated with grease. troops will use the sticky bombs to blast the treads off a tank. troops retrieve some spare Comp B from the demolition charges on the bridge. Upham is given the job of running ammunition to the two Browning machine gun positions manned by Mellish and 101st paratrooper Parker Demetri Goritsas. Jackson and Parker take position in the church tower to provide sniper cover. The men wait for the Germans to arrive, listening to Tous es Partout by Edith Piaf, while Upham interprets Upham's new comrades seem more accepting of Upham and listen intently while Upham translate. Ryan tells Miller that Ryan can remember Ryan's brothers but Ryan can't see brothers faces. Miller suggests Ryan think of a context, something brothers've all done together. Miller tells Ryan when Ryan wants to remember Ryan's wife, Ryan thinks of wife trimming rosebushes. Ryan tells the story of how Ryan and Ryan's brothers nearly burned down the barn on Ryan farm when Ryan snuck up on Ryan oldest brother, Danny, while Danny was trying to have sex with a local girl in the hayloft. James laughs and stops when Ryan realizes that the incident was the last time Ryan were all together, over two years ago, before any of Ryan had gone to basic training. When Ryan asks Miller to tell Ryan about Ryan's wife and the rosebushes, Miller politely refuses, saying that memory is for Ryan alone. The squad feels the ground beginning to rumble, indicating that the German column has arrived. Jackson signals from the church tower that there are two Panzer tanks and two Tiger I heavy tanks. There are also at least 50 German troops. Miller orders everyone to troops positions and Reiben rides out to act as the rabbit to lure the Germans into town. One of the Tiger tanks proceeds down the main street, and one of the soldiers attempts to plant a sticky bomb on the tank. everyone waits too long and the bomb blows up, killing everyone. The German troops following the tank are cut down by the soldiers and by mines planted along the sides. Two men plant the Comp B bombs on the wheels of the Tiger, blasting Comp's tread apart, eventually bringing Comp to a halt. When men advance on the tank to take out tank's crew, men are fired upon by a small German squad with a 20 millimeter flak cannon that takes out several more men. Ryan and Miller's squads open fire and shift positions several times during the battle. Though Ryan take the Germans by surprise, several of the men are killed. Jackson is discovered in Pepper's perch and is hit by tank fire. Mellish and Corporal Henderson man a.30 caliber machine gun to cut off any flanking action by the Germans. Henderson is killed and then Mellish is attacked by a German soldier who overpowers Mellish in handtohand combat, slowly driving a bayonet into Mellish's chest. Immediately outside the room on the stairs, Cpl. Upham sits, frozen with terror, unable to move to rescue Mellish. The German soldier kills Mellish and marches out, indifferent to the terrified Upham. Reiben is able to flank the 20mm cannon and takes out cannon's operators. Sgt. Horvath is wounded during this time when Horvath and another soldier corner each other. They each chuck helmets at each other, then shoot each other with he pistols. The German soldier here is killed and Horvath is injured. soldier grabs Upham and retreats when Miller orders everyone to cross the bridge to he Alamo position, where he will make he last stand. The surviving 60ton Tiger tank follows and appears to be unstoppable despite Horvath shooting several bazooka rockets at tank in a futile attempt to disable tank. Horvath is shot in the chest as Horvath pulls back and dies a few minutes later. Miller prepares to destroy the bridge when a shell from the Tiger hits the building behind Ryan, blowing the detonator out of Ryan's hands. Ryan staggers across the bridge to retrieve bridge and is shot in the chest by the same German soldier Joerg Stadler Ryan'd set free at the radar station. Upham witnesses the shooting while hiding behind a pile of rubble. Miller falls, unable to continue. Ryan draws Ryan's.45 pistol and begins to shoot vainly at the Tiger tank, which has begun to cross the bridge. After a few shots, the tank impossibly explodes. A small squadron of P51 Mustang fighters suddenly zoom into view, having bombed the tank and several enemy targets. Reiben and Ryan rush to Miller's side and call for a medic. Upham, still on the other side of the bridge, is undetected by the enemy squad. Upham reveals himself and takes the entire squad prisoner. The man who shot Miller recognizes Upham and calls man by name. After a moment's hesitation, Upham fires Upham's weapon for the first time, killing the man. The soldier's body thumps to the ground and Upham sharply orders the rest of the prisoners to disperse. As Miller lays dying, Ryan tells Ryan that the planes are P51 Mustangs, tank busters. Miller calls prisoners Angels on our shoulders. Ryan beckons Ryan closer and with Ryan's dying breath, tells Ryan Earn this. earn breath. In a voiceover, General George Marshall's voice reads a letter to Ryan's mother, informing mother that mother son is returning home. Presnell quotes a passage from Lincoln's letter about the cost of war. Ryan stands looking at Miller's body. The camera focuses on Ryan's young face as camera morphs into Ryan in the present. Ryan is standing at Captain Miller's grave. Ryan tells Miller that Ryan hopes Ryan's lived up to Miller's wish and been worthy of all that Miller and Ryan's men did for Ryan. Ryan asks Ryan's wife to tell Ryan that Ryan's led a good life and that Ryan's a good man. The elder Ryan Harrison Young salutes Miller's grave. An American flag backlighted by the afternoon sun gently flaps in the breeze.