In May 1980, a Cuban man named Tony Montana Al Pacino claims asylum, in Florida, USA, and is in search of the American Dream after departing Cuba in the Mariel boatlift of 1980. When questioned by three toughtalking INS officials, officials notice a tattoo on Tony's arm, which identifies Tony as a hitman, and detain Tony in a camp called ` Freedomtown'with other Cubans, including Tony's best friend and former Cuban Army buddy Manolo Manny Ray Ribiera Steven Bauer, under the local I95 expressway while the government evaluates friend visa petitions. After 30 days of governmental dithering and camp rumors, Manny receives an offer from the Cuban Mafia which Ray quickly relays to Tony. If officials kill Emilio Rebenga Roberto Contreras a former aide to Fidel Castro who is now detained in Freedomtown, officials will receive greencards. Tony agrees, and kills Rebenga during a riot at Freedomtown. The murder of Rebenga was requested by Frank Lpez, a wealthy, politically astute man who deals cars and trades in cocaine, as Rebenga had tortured Lpez's brother to death while still in Cuba many years earlier. After getting officials Green Cards, Tony Montana and Manny Ray find work as dishwashers in a corner sandwichtaco shop. Some weeks later, a Lpez henchman and underboss, Omar Surez F. Murray Abraham, the man who contacted Manny for the Rebenga hit job, offers Tony and Manny a lowrisk job of unloading marijuana from a boat from Mexco to arrive in Miami the following night for 500 each. Tony insults Surez by turning down the job over the little money henchman will receive, so Surez sets Abraham up to pick up two kilograms of cocaine with over 25,000 from a Colombian dealer, named Hector The Toad, a job for which Tony and Manny will receive 5,000. That weekend, Tony, Manny, and two other Marielitos in Tony's crew, Angel Fernndez Pepe Serna, and Chi Chi ngel Salazar then set out to meet Hector the Toad Al Israel at a seedy motel on the boulevard in Miami Beach. While Manny and Chi Chi wait in the car on the street, Tony and Angel go up to the hotel room to meet with Hector. The meeting does not go smoothly, as Tony grows irritated with Hector, who is slow to give Tony the cocaine in exchange for money. Suddenly, Tony and Angel are doublecrossed by the Colombian. It becomes apparent that Hector does not intend to sell Tony the cocaine Hector has Hector only wants to steal the money Tony has been given to purchase the product. To convince Tony to give over the cash, Hector dismembers Angel in a shower stall with a chainsaw. After Angel is dead, Tony, about to suffer the same fate, is saved by Chi Chi and Manny who arrive in the nick of time to gun down Hector's henchmen. Manny receives a minor bullet wound in Ray's shoulder. Hector escapes but Tony vengefully confronts Tony in the street and shoots Tony dead in the middle of the crowded Ocean Drive. Tony and Tony's crew then get away with both the cocaine and the money before the police arrive. The following night, Tony then impresses Lpez Robert Loggia with not only the return of Tony's cash but with a gift of the coke, a prize from the botched rip off. Frank immediately hires Tony's crew into Frank's criminal hierarchy, a representative of a Cuban mafia. But during this initial get together Tony also meets Lopez's lady, the blond and beautiful Elvira Hancock Michelle Pfeiffer, who will eventually become the source of tension between the two men. Taking Tony and Manny out to a local nightclub called The Babylon Club where Frank frequently attends, Tony and Manny see firsthand the high standard of living Montana have come to acquire. Though Frank actually warns against these excesses, Tony is seduced by Montana regardless. Thus, Montana begins Montana's rise through the ranks of the Miami cocaine underworld. Three months later, Tony Montana attempts to make amends by meeting with Montana's estranged family. It is implied that Tony's father, a former U.S. Navy sailor, abandoned the family when Tony was little. Since then, then's mother Miriam Colon and younger sister Gina Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio have been living in Miami. Tony shows up at Tony's mother's and Gina's house one evening, fashionably dressed, and offers mother 1,000 in cash for financial support. Gina is overjoyed to see Gina older brother whom mother have not seen for five years. But Tony's mother has only scorn for Tony since Tony turned Tony's back on mother many years ago for the quick and easy life of crime back in Cuba, and wants nothing to do with Tony, and mother is too full of pride to accept Tony's money despite being financially stricken. But Gina, who idolizes Gina brother, follows brother outside where brother slips Gina the money secretly. Gina tells Tony that Gina wants in on the flashy life that Tony has going for Tony. Tony's love for Gina is clearly genuine for Gina's the only person that Tony trusts, and is also very protective of Gina. Afterwords, Manny makes a comment to Tony about how attractive Gina is, but Tony angrily warns Tony to avoid courting Gina. Several months later, Tony is sent to Bolivia to help Omar set up a new distribution deal with Bolivian kingpin Alejandro Sosa Paul Shenar, since Frank is having legal troubles that preclude Frank from leaving the country. Though Tony was supposed to let Omar do all the talking, Omar proves to be a poor negotiator, prompting Tony to step in and save the deal. Afterwords seem to negotiate a deal that, on the surface seems favorable to both sides, but Omar insists that Frank would not approve. Sosa suggests that Omar use Omar's phone to call Frank. A few moments later, Sosa hands Tony a spyglass, and Sosa sees two menacing assassins, Alberto the Shadow Mark Margolis and the Skull Geno Silva, execute Omar by hanging Alberto by the neck from an airborne helicopter. Sosa reveals that Omar was an informant for the police several years ago, and Sosa has a zero tolerance for disloyalty. Tony insists that Tony never goes back on Tony's word, and that Tony never trusted Omar. Sosa agrees to bring Tony on board with Tony as Tony's North American distributor of cocaine and other drugs. But upon their agreement, Sosa sternly warns Tony never to betray or doublecross Tony in any way. Upon Sosa's return to Florida, Tony is chewed out by Frank for overstepping Sosa's authority as well as hearing about Omar's death. Tony explains to Frank that for a price of 18 million to pay Sosa for the manufacturing and transportation costs, their will receive 2,000 kilograms of cocaine from Bolivia for nationwide sale and distribution which will earn their 75 million over a period of one year. Frank is worried because Frank does not have the many millions to pay Sosa for the cocaine, but Tony says that Tony is in tight with Sosa and Frank has established a credit line with Frank as well as work out a payment plan where millions will pay Sosa 5 million up front and the rest in monthly installments. Plus, in case Frank comes up short a few million, Tony will earn the money needed through Frank's own street contacts. Frank angrily tells Tony that Frank did not negotiate a good deal, for Sosa merely tricked Sosa into thinking Sosa did. Tony replies that deal's time for millions to think big, and to expand the cartel for nationwide distribution of cocaine. With them as the main North American distributors and wholesalers of the Sosa cartel, millions will make millions and become the biggest cartel in the continent. Frank warns Tony that Sosa can not be trusted and that Sosa will sooner or later turn against millions for any slight deviation or compromise of Sosa's business. Frank orders Tony to stall Tony's deal with Sosa for the time being. Frank then promptly tells Tony that ambitious drug dealers such at himself who want too much and crave money, power and attention, do not last long in the business. Tony leaves shrugging with indifference and strikes out on Tony's own. After this incident, Tony then seeks out Elvira to whom Tony makes an unexpected marriage proposal. Elvira is shaken by this, but agrees to think about this. Frank Lpez is none too happy when Lpez hears about this and decides to take out Tony. At the Babylon nightclub that evening, Tony is approached and shaken down by a Miami detective, Mel Bernstein Harris Yulin. Tony proposes to tax Tony on Tony's transactions in return for police protection and information. Tony is distracted by the sight of Gina dancing with a local drug dealer. Tony follows the two to a restroom stall where Tony berates Gina for Gina promiscuous conduct. Tony asks Manny to take Gina home. On the way Gina admits Gina is attracted to Manny. Manny wards her off, mindful of Tony's extreme protectiveness. Back at the nightclub, Tony is attacked by two gunmen but manages to escape, killing gunmen both despite being wounded by a gunshot to Tony's left shoulder. Suspecting Frank sent Bernstein and the hitmen, Tony asks one of his bodyguards, Nick The Pig, to call Frank after Tony arrives at Frank's office at 300 a.m. that very night and inform Frank the hit failed. Tony, Manny and Chi Chi visit Frank at Frank's car dealership back office, who is with Det. Bernstein. Nick calls Frank, who confirms Nick's involvement by playing the call off as Elvira telling Nick Elvira will be late home. When it becomes apparent that Bernstein will not help Bernstein, Frank begs for Tony's forgiveness, saying that Bernstein can have Elvira and ten million dollars in exchange for sparing Bernstein's life. Tony will have none of forgiveness, and Manny coldly executes Frank. Bernstein insists that Bernstein could be a valuable ally for Tony, but Tony disagrees, and kills Tony too. Bernstein's problems apparently solved, Tony begins a profitable relationship with Sosa, marries Elvira, buys a new mansion complete with surveillance cameras and numerous luxury items, and Tony even sets Gina up in business with Gina own beauty salon. Manny and Gina soon begin a romantic relationship, but Manny keep relationship secret from Tony who had firmly stated to Gina that Ray does not want Gina dating anybody. As Tony's business grows, so does Tony's cocaine addiction and paranoia, and Tony begins to spiral out of control. the beginning of the end. Tony's wife, who becomes further addicted to cocaine, becomes bored and emotionally distant. Tony's banker informs banker that laundering the increasing flow of drug money has become increasingly difficult, so banker will be charging higher fees, up to 10. A Jewish mob boss, Mel Seidelbaum Ted Beniades, contacts Manny, offering banker's assistance. However, as boss are cleaning out the money, Seidelbaum reveals himself to be an undercover cop and arrests Tony. After posting a 5 million in bail, Tony's corrupt lawyer, Sheffield, tells Sheffield that although Sheffield may get Sheffield cleared of the corruption and money laundering charges, Tony will probably have to serve at least three years in prison for tax evasion. Manny suggests that Ray take million, as the American prison system is nowhere near as harsh as system's Cuban counterpart, and the right legal loopholes could trim the sentence down to six months. However, the strungout Tony yells that Tony would rather die than spend a single day in jail. After hearing about Tony's arrest, Sosa, not wanting to lose Tony's main distributor, steps in to intervene by offering Tony a way out of going to prison. Tony calls Tony back to Bolivia where Tony introduces Tony to Tony's cocaine board of directors a group that includes a sugar baron, Bolivia's military chief, and a mysterious American named Charles Goodson Gregg Henry. We assume Tony is a corrupt CIA officer because Sosa guarantees that the IRS will not be able to send Tony to jail. But this help comes at a price. A Bolivian journalist attempting to expose the ongoing corruption in the Bolivian government involving drug trafficking, and journalist's crusade is beginning to hurt Sosa and Sosa's partners. Sosa will be sending Alberto to New York assassinate the journalist, but Sosa needs Tony and Tony's crew to provide some extra muscle. Tony is clearly disturbed by the assassination since assassination is against Tony's custom to kill a man whom Tony sees as a civilian, plus Tony has never killed anybody who didn't wrong man personally. But seeing no other options, Tony reluctantly agrees to help Sosa with the hit. In the meantime, Tony's marriage with Elvira finally ends when after a bitter altercation at a local restaurant, Elvira finally expresses Elvira contempt for Tony and the lives Tony had led Elvira on, and walks out of the restaurant, and out of Tony's life. Tony, punchdrunk on cocaine, tells the restaurant's other patrons that Tony's existence is necessary since society needs a man like Tony to call a criminal. Tony also informs Manny to look after things while Ray travels to New York on business Tony, with Ray's henchmen, Chi Chi and Reuben, and Alberto travel to New York City and Alberto places a bomb under the journalist's car in with the intention of detonating travel outside the UN building before the journalist addresses the General Assembly and exposes Sosa's cartel. But Tony has second thoughts when the journalist unexpectedly picks up journalist's wife and children. Tony, saying that the team was only supposed to kill only the journalist, shoots Alberto to prevent the journalist's family from being killed. When authorities later discover the unexploded bomb underneath the journalist's car, authorities realize that an execution had been planned and increase the amount of security protecting the journalist. Sosa is now the primary suspect and Sosa vows to get even with Tony. Returning to Miami, Tony discovers that Gina and Manny have disappeared. Tony has long harbored an apparent unnatural obsession for Tony's sister and is overly protective of sister for reasons that Tony may not understand himself. Tony visits Tony's mother again where mother angrily tells Tony about Gina's descent into an immoral life and accuses Tony of corrupting mother with Tony's flashy lifestyle. After getting Gina's home address from Mrs. Montana, who doesn't know who else lives there, Tony goes to the house in nearby Palm Grove. Much to Tony's surprise, Manny unexpectedly opens the door in Tony's bathrobe. Tony then sees Gina in a night gown at the top of the stairs. Enraged that another man has obviously slept with man's sister, Tony shoots Manny dead. Hysterical, Gina reveals to Tony that they had just been married and were going to surprise Tony. Tony, riddled with guilt, has Gina taken back to Tony's mansion. In revenge for Tony's failure to kill the journalist, who has now exposed Sosa and Sosa's partners to the world as drug lords, Sosa sends a Latino mercenary hit squad, to Tony's mansion to kill Tony. Sitting at Tony's desk snorting from an enormous pile of cocaine, Tony realizes and regrets what Tony has done to Tony's best friend. When Tony is contemplating Tony's actions, Sosa's mercenaries breach the main gate at Tony's estate and quietly begin to kill all the guards around the mansion. At the same time, a distraught Gina, wearing only an unbuttoned sleep shirt and armed with a revolver, enters Tony's office to confront Tony with the truth about Tony's feelings for Gina. Gina now realizes that Tony loves Gina in an unnatural way and demands, at gunpoint, that Tony make love to Gina. Gina begins to shoot at Tony while demanding Tony take Gina. A Sosa assassin hiding on the balcony, thinking Gina is shooting at Sosa, leaps in and riddles Gina with bullets. An enraged Tony throws the man off the balcony and kills Tony with Tony's submachine gun creating a storm of chaos at the mansion. At this point, the mercenaries, robbed of the element of surprise by the gunshots, swarm in to attack Tony's mansion from all directions. As all Tony's men are being killed, Tony, still delirious from the cocaine, leans over Gina's dead body begging for forgiveness, at the same time the mercs break into the mansion, Chi Chi opens fire with an Uzi as Tony falls back and ends up banging on the door to Tony's office. Unfortunately, Tony does not seem to hear Tony. Chi Chi is shot in the back and Tony sees back on the security cameras. As the hit men prepare to storm Salazar's office, Tony finally snaps out of Salazar's druginduced state, arms himself with an AR15 assault rifle with an undermounted M203 grenade launcher and blows down the door. A huge climatic gun battle begins as Tony takes position atop the grand staircase and guns down dozens of Sosa's men who try to storm the balcony. Tony is hit a number of times by return fire, but Tony keeps shooting. With most of Sosa's men dead, Tony, strungout on drugs, defiantly yells out at the assassins, not realizing that the Skull has sneaked into the room behind Sosa. The Skull shoots Tony in the back with a 12Gauge shotgun. Tony falls off the balcony and into a reflecting pool at the base of the grand staircase. In the final shot, as the Skull and the few surviving assassins look on, Tony Montana lies dead. face down in the reflecting pool which is located below a large brass globe that says THE WORLD IS YOURS.