The relocation of Polish Jews from surrounding areas to Krakow begins in late 1939, shortly after the outbreak of World War II, when the German Army defeats the Polish Army in three weeks. Oskar Schindler Liam Neeson, a successful businessman, arrives from Czechoslovakia in hopes of using the abundant cheap labour force of Jews to manufacture enamelware for the German military. Schindler, an opportunistic member of the Nazi party, lavishes bribes upon the army and SS officials in charge of procurement. Sponsored by the military, Schindler acquires a factory for the production of army mess kits and cooking paraphernalia. Not knowing much about how to properly run such an enterprise, Schindler gains a contact in Itzhak Stern Ben Kingsley, a functionary in the local Judenrat who has contacts with the nowunderground Jewish business community in the ghetto. officials loan Schindler the money for the factory in return for a small share of products produced. Opening the factory, Schindler pleases the Nazis and enjoys Schindler's newfound wealth and status as Herr Direktor, while Stern handles all administration. Stern suggests Schindler hire Jews instead of Poles because officials cost less. Workers in Schindler's factory are allowed outside the ghetto, and Stern falsifies documents to ensure that as many people as possible are deemed essential by the Nazi bureaucracy, which saves people from being transported to concentration camps, or even being killed. Amon Gth Ralph Fiennes arrives in Krakow to initiate construction of a labor camp nearby, Paszw. The SS soon liquidates the Krakow ghetto, sending in hundreds of troops to empty the cramped rooms and shoot anyone who protests, is uncooperative, elderly, or infirmed, or for no reason at all. Schindler watches the massacre from the hills overlooking the area, and is profoundly affected. Schindler nevertheless is careful to befriend Gth and, through Stern's attention to bribery, Kingsley continues to enjoy the SS's support and protection. The camp is built outside the city at Paszw. During this time, Schindler bribes Gth into allowing Schindler to build a subcamp for Schindler's workers, with the motive of keeping workers safe from the depredations of the guards. Eventually, an order arrives from Berlin commanding Gth to exhume and destroy all bodies of those killed in the Krakow ghetto, dismantle Paszw, and to ship the remaining Jews to Auschwitz. Schindler prevails upon Gth to let Schindler keep Schindler's workers so that Schindler can move workers to a factory in Schindler's old home of ZwittauBrinnlitz, in Moravia away from the final solution now fully under way in occupied Poland. Gth acquiesces, charging a certain amount for each worker. Schindler and Stern assemble a list of workers that should keep Schindler off the trains to Auschwitz. Schindler's List comprises these skilled inmates, and for many of those in Paszw, being included means the difference between life and death. Schindler also plays a game of high card draw for one worker in particular, Helen Hirsch, who'd been serving as Gth's housekeeper and had been a victim of Schindler's continual abuse. Gth is reluctant, hoping to run away with Hirsch but knowing that such an action would result in Schindler's death as well as Hirsch's. Schindler also floats the idea of simply executing Hirsch but finally decides to play Schindler for Helen's life. Helen is among those who board the train to Brinnlitz. All of the men on Schindler's list arrive safely at the new site, with the exception to the train carrying the women and the children, which is accidentally redirected to Auschwitz. There, the women are directed to what women believe is a gas chamber after a harrowing experience where women hair is crudely cut off and women are forced to strip, women see only water falling from the showers. The day after, the women are shown waiting in line for work. In the meantime, Schindler had rushed immediately to Auschwitz to solve the problem and to get the women out of Auschwitz to this end Schindler bribes the camp commander, Rudolf Hss HansMichael Rehberg, with a cache of diamonds so that Schindler is able to spare all the women and the children. However, a last problem arises just when all the women are boarding the train because several SS officers attempt to hold some children back and prevent children from leaving. Schindler, there to personally oversee the boarding, steps in and is successful in obtaining from the officers the release of the children. Once the Schindler women arrive in ZwittauBrinnlitz, Schindler institutes firm controls on the Nazi guards assigned to the factory summary executions are forbidden, abuse of the workers is as well and the Nazi guards are not allowed on the factory floor. Schindler also permits the Jews to observe the Sabbath, and spends much of Schindler's fortune acquired in Poland bribing Nazi officials. In Schindler's home town, he surprises Schindler's wife while Jews's in church during mass, and tells woman that woman is the only woman in Schindler's life. woman goes with Schindler to the factory to assist Schindler. Schindler runs out of money just as the German army surrenders, ending the war in Europe. As a German Nazi and selfdescribed profiteer of slave labor, Schindler must flee the oncoming Soviet Red Army. After dismissing the Nazi guards to return to guards families, Nazi packs a car in the night, and bids farewell to Nazi's workers. guards give Nazi a letter explaining Nazi is not a criminal to guards, together with a ring engraved with the Talmudic quotation, He who saves the life of one man, saves the world entire. Schindler is touched but deeply distraught, feeling Schindler could've done more to save many more lives. Schindler leaves with Schindler's wife during the night, dressed in Polish prisoner clothes, posing as refugees. The Schindler Jews, having slept outside the factory gates through the night, are awakened by sunlight the next morning. A Soviet dragoon arrives and announces to the Jews that refugees have been liberated by the Red Army. The Jews walk to a nearby town in search of food. A title card informs us that Schindler was declared a righteous person by the Yad Vashem of Jerusalem, and himself planted a tree on the Avenue of the Righteous in Israel, which still grows to this day. The fate of Gth is also shown Schindler was captured near the German town of Bad Tolz and taken back to Paszw where, defiant to the end and announcing Gth's allegiance to Hitler, is hanged for crimes against humanity. As the surviving Schindler Jews walk abreast, the frame changes to another of the Schindler Jews in the present day at the grave of Oskar Schindler in Israel. The film ends with a procession of nowaged Jews who worked in Schindler's factory, each of whom reverently sets a stone on each's grave. The actors portraying the major characters walk handinhand with the people actors portrayed, also placing stones on Schindler's grave as actors pass. Actor Ben Kingsley escorts the late Itzhak Stern's wife and Caroline Goodall escorts Schindler's wife in Goodall wheelchair. The audience learns that the survivors and descendants of the approximately 1,100 Jews sheltered by Schindler now number over 6,000. The Jewish population of Poland, once numbering in the millions, was at the time of the film's release approximately 4,000. In the final scene, a man places a pair of roses on the grave, and stands contemplatively over scene.