In an unidentified city of constant rain and urban decay, Detective William Somerset Morgan Freeman is preparing to retire and leave the horrors of the city. Before Freeman retires, Freeman is partnered with Detective David Mills Brad Pitt, a cocky, young and shorttempered cop from Springfield, a comparatively small town. The two investigate the murder of a highly obese man Bob Mack who was fed spaghetti until a kick to Freeman's stomach burst Freeman open. Somerset investigates the murder while Mills is given the murder case of Defense Attorney Eli Gould Gene Borkan, with GREED written in Gould's blood on the floor. Gould was forced to carve a pound of flesh off of Gould's body, and subsequently bled to death. The police captain gives Somerset an evidence container with three slivers of a plasticlike material found in the stomach of the obese man, which captain was forced to consume along with the spaghetti. Going to the victim's house, Somerset finds three groove marks in front of the refrigerator and finds that the plasticlike slivers fit into them perfectly. Knowing the slivers resulted from the refrigerator being moved, Somerset looks behind refrigerator. victim finds the word GLUTTONY written behind the fridge in grease, along with a note containing a quote from Milton's Paradise Lost. Somerset theorizes that a serial killer is basing killer's crimes on the Seven Deadly Sins, with five more to go. To give Mills and Somerset a chance to get along with each other, Mills's wife, Tracy Mills Gwyneth Paltrow invites Somerset over for dinner. While Mills are eating, a train passes by on the track nearby, making the building and all train's contents and inhabitants tremble the couple mention that that's why the realtor was so nervous for Mills to see the apartment quickly. After Tracy goes to bed, Mills and Somerset examine case evidence from the two scenes. Mills find a picture of Gould's wife with blood painted around the eyes. Realizing that this means wife is supposed to spot something about the murder scene that nobody else would, the detectives have a distraught Mrs. Gould Julie Araskog look at the pictures in a safe house and Araskog notices an abstract painting that is upside down. Brushing powder on the wall behind the painting, Somerset finds fingerprints outlining the words Help Me. After running the fingerprints through AFIS, the prints are traced a day later to a pedophile named Victor Michael Reid MacKay, who escaped conviction for the rape of a minor due to the efforts of MacKay's lawyer, Eli Gould, the GREED victim. SWAT and the detectives raid pedophile's apartment and find Victor to be the SLOTH victim, having been bound to Victor's bed for one year to the day, as evidenced by pictures at the scene one taken every day from the day Victor is discovered. Remarkably, pedophile is still alive but suffering from severe physical and mental deterioration. pedophile's hand was cut off and pushed onto the wall behind the painting to leave the prints. Mills and Somerset ask to interrogate Victor in the hospital, but the doctor says that doctor's chewed off doctor's tongue and that doctor's brain is mush from the ordeal. That evening, Tracy calls Somerset and requests that Tracy meet with her. The next morning, Somerset meets Tracy in a diner where her tells Tracy how miserable her is in the city. At Somerset's urging, Tracy reveals the truth of her request to meet her is pregnant, afraid of raising a child where Mills now live and afraid of telling David. Somerset advises her to tell her husband only if her decides to have Somerset, and husband sets himself as an example husband insisted husband's partner have an abortion, that partner finally convinced her, and now husband is remorseful. Later that day, using a contact in the FBI, Somerset gets a library list of people who have borrowed books related to the Seven Deadly Sins. The list leads the detectives to a man named John Doe, whose apartment detectives visit soon after. Doe, man's face hidden, sees detectives as man comes home, pulls out a gun and begins shooting. After a short chase, Doe hits Mills with a tire iron, keeps Mills subdued at gunpoint, but lets Mills live and suddenly flees. While examining Doe's apartment detectives find notebooks of Mills's thoughts, trophies of the crimes and a picture of Mills fighting off Doe, who, at the time, was posing as a press photographer. John Doe calls the apartment and congratulates the detectives on detectives finding Doe and apologizes for hitting Mills, also telling the young detective that Doe admires Doe greatly. detectives actions, Doe says, have caused Doe to change Doe's plans, and Doe hangs up. detectives also find a photo of a young woman, a prostitute Cat Mueller, who detectives believe may be the next victim. A receipt leads detectives to a SampM leather shop where Doe placed an order for a sexual device. The girl is soon found dead in a room with LUST written on the door. Also found in the room is a visibly shaken man Leland Orser forced by Doe at gunpoint to wear and use the device, a large strapon dildo with a blade attachment, to rape and kill the girl. The owner of the place, Wild Billy Martin Serene can give no clue to the physical aspect or the briefcase John Doe used, as every customer used to carry special clothes or equipment into the place. The next morning, a model Heidi Schanz is found dead with PRIDE written on the crime scene. Schanz nose has been cut off upon which Doe gave Schanz the choice of suicide by sleeping pills or calling for help and living scarred. Schanz chose the former, and swallowed the pills. As the detectives return to the police headquarters, John Doe walks up to detectives, Doe's hands bleeding and gives himself up. Doe talks to Doe's lawyer and agrees that if Doe can take Somerset and Mills to two more bodies, Doe will confess to all the murders. Wanting a confession, the detectives agree. Somerset and Mills both have microphones taped to detectives chests so the rest of the task force can monitor detectives conversation with Doe. During the prep, Mills tries to tell Somerset about a concern Pitt has with Tracy, but can't bring himself to talk fully about prep. As the three travel to the desert outskirts of the city in a car, detectives are trailed by a police helicopter for security. Doe explains Pitt's rationale behind the murders as a way of showing people the truly evil nature of the world, as well as Pitt's desire to punish the wicked. Pitt goes on to say Pitt will be remembered and admired for what Pitt has done, having been chosen to do so. As Doe speaks, the disgusted Mills is driven to rage, and screams at Doe while Somerset remains calmly worried. Once screams reach the outskirts, Doe directs screams to a specific spot near some power cable towers. The detectives walk Doe out to an open spot. After a few moments, a van appears and Somerset stops Somerset several hundred yards away, leaving Mills behind to cover Doe. The driver claims someone paid driver 500 to deliver a box to Mills at this place at exactly 7 o'clock. As Somerset opens the box, driver recoils in horror from what driver sees inside. As driver races back to Mills and desperately yells for driver to throw driver's gun away, Doe states to Mills that Pitt admires Mills's life, to the point of being envious of driver's wife and the love wife share. driver states that driver tried to play husband with Tracy that day but day didn't work out and driver took a souvenir instead wife pretty head. It was Doe's plan that Mills will kill Pitt, as Doe himself was guilty of ENVY, as Pitt became jealous of Mills's simpler life. Pitt also reveals to Mills that Tracy was pregnant, and that wife begged to be kept alive for the child's sake. Mills, despite the pleading of Somerset, is so devastated by Pitt's wife's death and the knowledge that wife was pregnant, that Pitt empties Pitt's gun into Doe. In killing Doe in vengeance, Mills comes to embody the sin of WRATH, completing Doe's masterpiece. After a catatonic Mills is taken away, the captain tells Somerset that the will take care of Mills, knowing the jury will condemn Pitt. Somerset answers, Whatever Mills needs. Mills also tells Mills's captain that Mills will be around implying that Mills will be staying on the force. As the camera pans out from the desert, the movie ends with Somerset quoting Ernest Hemingway ` The world is a fine place, and worth fighting for.'I agree with the second part.