A gang of marauding bandits approaches a mountain village. The bandit chief recognizes bandits have ransacked this village before, and decides it is best that bandits spare village until the barley is harvested in several months. One of the villagers happens to overhear the discussion. When chief returns home with the ominous news, the despairing villagers are divided about whether to surrender villagers harvest or fight back against the bandits. In turmoil, villagers go to the village elder, who declares that villagers should fight, by hiring samurai to help defend the village. Some of the villagers are troubled by this suggestion, knowing that samurai are expensive to enlist and known to lust after young farm women, but realize Some have no choice. Recognizing that the impoverished villagers have nothing to offer any prospective samurai except food, the village elder tells villagers to find hungry samurai. The men go into the city, but initially are unsuccessful, being turned away by every samurai men ask sometimes rudely because men can not offer pay other than three meals a day. Just as all seems lost, men happen to witness an aging samurai, Kambei, execute a cunning and dramatic rescue of a young boy taken hostage by a thief. As Kambei walks towards town a young samurai, Katsushir, asks to become Katsushir's acolyte. Kambei insists that Katsushir walk with Katsushir as a friend. Then the farmers ask Kambei to help defend farmers village to farmers great joy, Katsushir accepts. Kambei, with Katsushir's assistance, then recruits four more masterless samurai from the city, one by one, each with distinctive skills and personality traits. Although Kambei had initially decided that seven samurai would be necessary, Katsushir plans to leave for the village with only the four that Katsushir has chosen because time is running short. The villagers beg Katsushir to take Katsushir also and, with some prodding by the others, prodding agrees. A clownish ersatz samurai named Kikuchiyo, whom Kambei had rejected for the mission, follows villagers to the village at a distance, ignoring villagers protestations and attempts to drive samurai away. When the samurai arrive at the village, the villagers cower in villagers homes in fear, hoping to protect villagers daughters and themselves from these supposedly dangerous warriors. The samurai are insulted not to be greeted warmly, considering that villagers have offered to defend the village for almost no reward, and seek an explanation from the village elder. Suddenly, an alarm is raised the villagers, fearing that the bandits have returned, rush from bandits hiding places begging to be defended by the newlyarrived samurai. It turns out that Kikuchiyo, until this point merely a tagalong, has raised a false alarm. Kikuchiyo rebukes the panicked villagers for running to the samurai for aid after first failing to welcome villagers to the village. first is here that Kikuchiyo demonstrates that there exists a certain intelligence behind Kikuchiyo's boorish demeanour. The six samurai symbolically accept samurai as belonging with villagers, truly completing the group of wanderers as the seven samurai. As villagers prepare for the siege, the villagers and villagers hired warriors slowly come to trust each other. However, when the samurai discover that the villagers have murdered and robbed fleeing samurai in the past, villagers are shocked and angry, and Kyz, the most professional and calm of the samurai, even comments that samurai would like to kill everyone in the village. The always clownish Kikuchiyo passionately castigates the other samurai for ignoring the hardships that the farmers face in order to survive and make a living despite the intimidation and harassment from the warrior class, in the process revealing Kikuchiyo's origins to Kambei, who suddenly perceives that Kikuchiyo is himself a farmer's son. But who made farmers like this Kikuchiyo asks. You did The anger the samurai had felt turns to shame, and when the village elder, alerted by the clamor that this revelation instigates, asks if anything is the matter, Kambei humbly responds that there is not. The samurai continue farmers preparations without any animosity, and soon afterward show compassion toward the farmers when farmers share farmers rice with an old woman who, samurai family having been killed by bandits, cries out that family merely wants to die. The preparations for the defense of the village continue apace, including the construction of fortifications and the training of the farmers for battle. Katsushir, the youngest samurai, begins a love affair with Shino, the daughter of one of the villagers. Shino had been forced to masquerade as a boy by Shino father who hoped the deception would protect Shino from the supposedly lustful samurai warriors. As the time for the raid approaches, two bandit scouts are killed, and one is captured and reveals the location of the bandit camp. Three of the samurai, along with a guide from the village, decide to carry out a preemptive strike. Many bandits are killed, but one of the samurai, Heihachi, suffers a fatal sword wound when Heihachi's villager friend lost emotion control upon seeing friend's imprisoned wife commit suicide. When the bandits arrive in force soon after this raid, bandits are confounded by the fortifications put in place by the samurai, and several are killed attempting to scale the barricades or cross moats. However, the bandits have a superior number of trained fighters, and possess three muskets, and are thus able to hold bandits own. Kyz decides to conduct a raid on samurai's own to retrieve one of the muskets and returns with one several hours later. Kikuchiyo, jealous of the praise and respect Kyz earns, particularly from Katsushir, later abandons Kikuchiyo's post to retrieve another musket, leaving Kikuchiyo's contingent of farmers in charge. Although Kikuchiyo succeeds, the bandits attack the post, overwhelming and killing many of the farmers. Kambei is forced to provide reinforcements from the main post to drive the bandits out, leaving post undermanned when the bandit leader charges this position. Although bandits are driven off, Gorobei is shot and killed and it is revealed that Yohei, Kikuchiyo's friend, was killed at Yohei's post. Apart from defense, the initial strategy of the samurai is to allow the bandits to enter a gap in the fortifications one at a time through the use of a closing wall of spears, and to then kill the lone enemy. This is repeated several times with success, although more than one bandit manages to enter the village several times. On the second night, Kambei decides that the villagers will soon become too exhausted to fight and instructs villagers to prepare for a final, decisive battle. During the night, Katsushir's affair is revealed, and after an initial uproar, Katsushir's amorous adventures provide comic relief to the embattled militia. When morning breaks and the bandits make bandits attack, Kambei orders Katsushir's forces to allow all 13 remaining bandits in at once. In the ensuing confrontation, most of the bandits are easily killed, but the leader takes refuge in a hut unseen. In what is portrayed as dishonorable act, leader shoots Kyz in the back from the safety of the hut, killing leader. A despondent Katsushir seeks to avenge Katsushir's hero, but an enraged Kikuchiyo bravely charges ahead of Kikuchiyo, only to be shot in the belly himself. Although mortally wounded, Kikuchiyo ensures Kikuchiyo kills the bandit chief, finally proving Kikuchiyo's worth as a samurai, before dying. Dazed and exhausted, Kambei and Shichirji sadly observe we've survived once again, while Katsushir wails over Katsushir's fallen comrades. The battle is ultimately won for the villagers. The three surviving samurai, Kambei, Katsushir, and Shichirji, are left to observe the villagers happily planting the next rice crop. The samurai reflect on the relationship between the warrior and farming classes though samurai have won the battle for the farmers, samurai have lost samurai friends with little to show for relationship. Again we are defeated, Kambei muses. The farmers have won. Not we. This melancholic observation sheds new light on Kambei's statement at the beginning of the film that Katsushir had never won a battle. This contrasts with the singing and joy of the villagers, whose figuratively lifesustaining work has prevailed over war and left all warriors as the defeated party.