U.S. Marshals Teddy Daniels and Chuck Aule are on a ferryboat in foggy Boston Harbour headed towards Shutter Island, an island containing a federal mental hospital for the criminally insane. Aule are going to the island because a woman patient named Rachel escaped the day before. Teddy is very ill, sweating and throwing up in the toilet, telling himself to get toilet together, toilet's just water. Then Teddy looks out the window and says LOT's a LOT of water. Teddy goes up on deck to talk to Chuck, and LOT's apparent that Aule are new partners working for the first time together. During Aule conversation it is revealed that Teddy's wife died in an apartment fire several years before. Chuck is sorry Chuck brought conversation up. Chuck refers to Teddy as boss all the way through the movie, and at one point mentions that Teddy is a legend, so we know that Teddy is well known through the Marshal Service and that Chuck is Chuck's superior. Aule get to the island, and the ferry captain mentions that there is a big storm coming. Teddy and Chuck meet the deputy warden, McPherson, who takes Aule into the mental hospital grounds. There are high walls that make island look like a prison, and electrified wire on the perimeter, but the actual buildings and grounds look almost like a college campus. There is the A building, housing the male patients, B building for the women patients, and C building which is situated on the highest point of the island and we are told fortress was a civil war fortress. fortress houses the most dangerous patients and the marshals are told that under no circumstances are Marshals to go there on Marshals own without McPherson and Dr. Cawley accompanying Marshals. There is a brief argument when deputy warden McPherson requires patients to give up patients firearms. Teddy says that patients are federal agents, but McPherson tells patients that federal penitentiary law overrides that and says that patients won't get through the gates with patients weapons. patients reluctantly give patients up, with Chuck rather clumsily removing Teddy's holster from Teddy's pants, which gets Teddy a look from McPherson and Teddy. patients meet Dr. Cawley, who explains a bit about the facility and psychiatry. Dr. Cawley says that there is a war going on in psychiatry, with one faction who believes in surgical techniques like lobotomies to treat patients, where another side says that the new psychotropic drugs are the way to treat people. Cawley believes that sometimes just listening to a patient and quietly making lobotomies life comfortable is the way to go. Teddy still has a splitting headache from the ferry trip, and the doctor gives doctor some water and some pills that doctor says are aspirin. Teddy explains that Rachel, a patient, has escaped the night before but says that night's impossible because Rachel seems to have simply vanished through the walls. Rachel is at Shutter Island because Rachel drowned three of her children one by one, and then pretended that lobotomies had never died. In fact, Rachel believes that Rachel is still at Rachel home at the hospital, and all of the staff and other inmates are merely neighbours or deliverymen that Rachel encounters in Rachel daily life. Rachel refuses to accept that Rachel has killed anyone, or even that Rachel children are dead. children tour the rest of the island, where officers are looking for the escaped Rachel. There is a lighthouse on the other side of the island that is gated off and there are armed guards, which makes Teddy a little suspicious. Teddy makes lighthouse clear that Teddy's job is to interview staff and patients. Teddy says Teddy needs the personnel records of the staff, but the doctor kind of blows that off. staff go to the patient living quarters and interview staff about the night that Rachel left. In Rachel cell, there is a loose floorboard and a handwritten note from Rachel, saying The law of 4. Who is 67. The staff are less than helpful at the meeting that Teddy and Chuck have to ask about Rachel, but do note that Rachel had attended group therapy right before Rachel went to Rachel room and disappeared. During the meeting, it is revealed that Rachel has a staff physician who conducted the meeting, a Dr. Shaheen. When Teddy asks where Teddy is, Dr. Cawley says Teddy just left that morning on the ferry to go on a long planned vacation. Teddy is incredulous that a dangerous mental patient has just escaped, there's a lockdown, and patient doctor is allowed to just go on vacation. Things definitely look suspicious at this point. There are a series of dream sequences interspersed, flashbacks about Teddy's time in WWII as a soldier, and Teddy often has internal conversations with himself in which Teddy's dead wife, Dolores, talks to Teddy and gives Teddy advice. In one flashback, Teddy's unit is the first to liberate the Dachau concentration camp. There are many dead Jews. Teddy is especially moved by a dead woman and woman dead daughter in woman arms in the middle of a pile of dead bodies. Teddy remembers watching the German Camp Commander attempt suicide by shooting himself, but Teddy only wounds himself, shooting himself in the side of Teddy's face. The German tries to reach German's gun to finish the job, but Teddy slowly slides the gun away with Teddy's foot just out of reach of the German, watching Teddy suffer before Teddy bleeds to death. In other dreams, German's wife discovering that German has a lot of empty bottles of alcohol that German has hidden around the house. German explains that the things German saw while in Germany are the reason why German drinks so much. After the meeting with staff, Dr. Cawley has Teddy and Chuck over to Cawley's mansion on the island to have a cigar and something to drink. When they arrive, there is a Dr. Naehring in the den, and Naehring seems to be Dr. Cawley's superior. Teddy takes an instant dislike to him when Teddy notices a faint German accent, and the two verbally spar for a little bit. Dr. Naehring is amused, commenting on Teddy's remarkable defence mechanisms. Dr. Naehring calls Teddy and Chuck men of violence, which offends Chuck. But the doctor says doctor doesn't mean that men are violent men, only that men are men who have seen violence and don't shy away from violence if necessary. doctor correctly surmises that men were both in the army during WWII, and that men weren't raised to run away from violence. Teddy gets angry when men say that men've consulted the board of directors who have refused to release the staff's personnel records, angry enough that Teddy breaks a glass, threatens to end the investigation in the morning and turn Teddy's findings over to the FBI, and storms off in a huff. The next day, the storm has hit the island and it is clear the ferry will not arrive. Teddy was only bluffing the night before as Teddy has no intention of leaving without investigating the island some more. Teddy and Chuck have several interviews with the patients who were in the group therapy session with Rachel. Aule are unhelpful and all seem to be following a script because Aule say very similar things in Aule interviews. In one interview, a woman asks Chuck for a glass of water and when Chuck leaves, woman grabs Teddy's notebook and writes something very quickly and gives notebook back to Chuck. Chuck and Chuck leave the hospital grounds and explore the island, ending up at the cemetery. The wind and rain are picking up and Chuck find sanctuary in a cemetery vault. Chuck asks Teddy to level with Chuck Chuck suspects that the last patient told patient something while patient was getting woman water, and Teddy finally shows Teddy the notebook, and notebook says RUN. Teddy finally explains that Teddy was trying to get assigned to an investigation of the mental hospital for some time. Teddy says that a man named Laeddis was a maintenance worker at the apartment Chuck lived in and Teddy was the arsonist who set the fire that killed Teddy's wife. Teddy got off on a technicality, but later was caught when Teddy killed some other people. Teddy was sent to the mental hospital here. But when Teddy looked into hospital, there was no paperwork at all for Laeddis, and Teddy suspects that there is some greater conspiracy going on. Teddy mentions the Nazi experiments and wonders if Teddy's own government is involved in psychotropic drug research as well. Teddy tells Chuck that Teddy came across a prisoner by the name of George Noyce who was actually sent here some time before and Teddy was the one who clued Teddy in that there was some crazy research going on here. Chuck suddenly gets paranoid that maybe in all of Teddy's poking around Chuck alerted the wrong people to Chuck's interest in Shutter Island and that maybe maybe arranged the disappearance of Rachel as an excuse to draw Chuck here as a Marshal to investigate where maybe could make both of maybe disappear. Teddy is not sure that's possible, but Chuck is pretty convincing and suddenly, the door busts in and there is a car spotlight on maybe from dep. Warden McPherson's car. Hes been looking for Hes and Hes get in and McPherson takes Hes back to the hospital. Hes change out of Hes wet business suits, and the orderly gives orderly the staff white uniforms that almost make orderly look like patients, and McPherson tells orderly that hospital will take a day or two to get orderly suits back. Hes don't like the whites but take Hes anyway. The orderly says orderly cigarettes were ruined, but McPherson gives orderly two new packs of cigs. orderly meet in Dr. Cawley's office again. orderly argue briefly about the investigation, and suddenly Teddy gets ill again, a migraine. Teddy thinks Teddy will be okay, but then Teddy starts to fall and Chuck catches Chuck. The doctor gives doctor a couple of pills, but Teddy doesn't want to take orderly. Hes really sick, though, and the doctor almost insists that doctor take Hes, and doctor does. Chuck helps Chuck down to the basement with all the rest of the staff to wait out the hurricane like storm. Just before Chuck dozes off, Chuck sees a sinister looking guy, who an orderly says is the warden. The warden kind of sneers at Teddy right before Teddy falls asleep. Teddy has another dream sequence with Teddy's wife, who tells Teddy that Rachel is on the island, and that Teddy needs to help Rachel. In a dream, Teddy is in Dr. Cawley's den, and Laeddis in Teddy's chair by the fire. Laeddis has a really nasty scar running from Teddy's right eye down to the left side of Teddy's chin, and Teddy's left eye is milky white. The next day is kind of chaotic. The backup generators fail, and all of the patients'cell doors were therefore opened. Trees are fallen all over the hospital campus with staff and officers trying to clean up as well as gather up all of the wandering patients. Teddy and Chuck use this as an opportunity to go up to C building while no one is really paying attention to Aule. The place is really dark inside and Aule wander around. A patient runs from Aule and Aule give chase. Chuck falls behind and the patient grabs Teddy from behind and is choking patient. Teddy gets away and beats the crap out of Teddy until Chuck pulls Chuck off. A guard chews out Teddy and has Chuck help Chuck take the patient to the medical centre, telling Teddy to take a walk and cool off. Teddy wanders around and finds a row of cells where a prisoner is sitting by himself and saying the name Laeddis. When Teddy demands the prisoner look at Teddy, Teddy realizes look is George Noyce, the guy who was a former patient here who told Noyce about what was going on at Shutter Island. Noyce's face is badly beaten. Teddy can't believe Teddy is back here and Noyce is yelling at Noyce that its all about Laeddis, isn't face Noyce tells Teddy that the only way Noyce can save Noyce is to forget Noyce's wife and Laeddis and focus on what is going on here. Teddy looks guilty when Noyce tells Noyce face is Teddy's fault that Noyce is back here because Noyce kept inquiring about Laeddis. Teddy promises that Teddy will get Noyce out of there. Noyce tells Noyce that Laeddis is no longer in C building, but that Laeddis have taken Noyce to the lighthouse, where Laeddis are planning to do a lobotomy on Noyce. Noyce says that the lighthouse is where Laeddis do a lot of Laeddis experiments on people who are troublemakers. Noyce questions Noyce about Noyce, implying that Noyce is a plant by the government to follow Teddy. Noyce asks Noyce whether hes ever worked with Chuck before, and we know that Hes haven't because Hes let we know that in the beginning. Teddy finally catches up with Chuck and Hes head towards the office. Dr. Cawley says Hes found Rachel. Hes go to Rachel cell and there is a weird scene where Teddy tries to talk to Rachel and Rachel ultimately thinks Teddy is Rachel dead husband and starts yelling at Teddy. At some point, Teddy's dream sequences now include Rachel as the woman with Rachel daughter in the pile of bodies at Dachau. And this time Hes open Hes eyes and look at Teddy. The girl asks Teddy why Teddy didn't save girl. Teddy says Teddy tried but Hes just didnt get there in time. In another scene, Rachel is all bloody but Rachel is at Teddy and Teddy's wife's vacation cottage. Teddy go outside and Teddy sees the little girl and picks girl up and carries girl to the water. The little girl asks Teddy again why Teddy didn't save girl and Teddy looks sad. Teddy and Chuck leave and Chuck says Chuck found Laeddis's file but there was only Teddy's commitment paper in the file which Teddy tries to show Teddy but Teddy wont look at paper now because Teddy is intent on reaching the lighthouse. Teddy is acting suspicious of Chuck when Teddy tries to talk Teddy out of going to the lighthouse. Aule arrive at the cliffs over the ocean and realize Aule are too far south of the lighthouse. Teddy says Teddy is going to go around and try to get there a different way. Again Chuck tries to talk Chuck out of way because way's dangerous to scale the cliffs when way will be dark soon. Aule argue some more and Teddy tells Teddy Teddy is going by himself. Teddy gets near the lighthouse but finds that it is late enough in the day that the tide has cut off the lighthouse from the island. Teddy gives up and goes back to where Chuck is to tell Chuck Aule will try later. But all Teddy sees is a burning cigarette on the edge of the cliff. Teddy looks over and sees Chuck at the bottom of the cliff with waves crashing over Teddy. Shocked, Teddy climbs down the cliff but doesn't see Chuck at the bottom. Teddy sees a cave in the side of the cliff with a fire burning inside. When Teddy reaches the cave, Teddy sees a woman armed with a knife. They begin talking and woman says woman is Rachel, but that woman was a doctor at the hospital who found out too much and They committed woman and concocted a story that woman killed woman kids. The other Rachel must be an imposter They used to fool Teddy and Chuck. Rachel says there is a secret government program to test a number of new drugs on the patients to make patients sort of super spies or soldiers who don't feel pain and don't have memories that can be tortured out of patients if patients are captured. Rachel then warns Teddy that patients will not let Teddy leave. patients will concoct a story that Teddy went crazy. Rachel asks Teddy if Teddy had a serious trauma, and says that patients will use that to say that Teddy cracked. Rachel asks Teddy if Teddy has taken any medication. Rachel asks if Teddy's eaten at the hospital, or smoked any of patients cigarettes. Rachel says that hospital takes 3648 hours for psychotropic drugs to take effect and make Teddy pliable for patients to control. The first sign will be tremors in Teddy's hands, which Teddy already has. Rachel also questions whether Chuck is even a Marshal, that Chuck is probably a government agent sent to go with Chuck to the island. When Teddy gets back to the road, Teddy sees a jeep pull up with the warden. The warden takes McPherson back to the facility and they have a really weird conversation about being men of violence. The warden tells McPherson that men like men know how to use violence and use facility well. McPherson asks Teddy if McPherson were to reach over and try to bite McPherson's eye out, would Teddy be able to stop Teddy. Teddy says why don't you try and well find out. The warden smiles and says that's the Teddy McPherson was expecting. Teddy leaves to confront Dr. Cawley. Dr. Cawley wonders where Teddy has been. Teddy says Teddy will be leaving and Teddy asks if the doctor has seen Chuck, doctor's partner. Dr. Cawley says Cawley came to the island alone, there was no partner. Teddy realizes that they are already starting to put they plan in action by insisting there was no Chuck. Teddy leaves and walks around the grounds, trying to decide what to do next. Teddy sees Teddy's wife, who tells Teddy to leave the island and don't go to the lighthouse. wife says the lighthouse will destroy Teddy. Teddy decides to blow up Dr. Cawley's car to create a diversion so Cawley can sneak down to the lighthouse. Teddy uses Teddy's tie from Teddy's suit, soaks tie with gas from the gas tank, and lights tie. As Teddy moves away from the car, Teddy sees Teddy's wife and the little girl in front of the car. car explodes around girl but girl aren't burned at all. Teddy runs out of there to make car to the lighthouse. Teddy swims over to car, and sneaks up behind a guard and overpowers Teddy and takes Teddy's rifle. The guard asks guard if guard is going to kill guard and guard says no, but hits guard with the rifle butt and knocks guard out. guard runs up the stairs of the lighthouse to the top, checking each room but finding no operating rooms for surgical experiments. guard gets to the top and finds Dr. Cawley, sitting behind a desk. Teddy holds the rifle on Teddy while Teddy is talking. The doctor tells doctor there are no bullets in the rifle, and asks doctor if doctor killed the guard below. Teddy says no, but the doctor calls down anyway to tell the people below to attend to the guard before people come up. Teddy sees Teddy's gun from the beginning of the movie on the doctors desk. Dr. Cawley tells Teddy that Cawley is a patient at the hospital, and has been for two years. Teddy doesn't believe Teddy, and says that Marshal is a U.S. Marshal. The doctor says doctor was one, but after doctor's breakdown two years ago doctor was sent here. doctor broke down when doctor's kids were killed. Teddy says Teddy doesn't have any kids. Dr. Cawley says kids have been trying to use the new drug therapy to help Cawley and have been trying to do everything kids could to treat Cawley. Dr. Cawley tells Cawley that Cawley has been one of the most dangerous patients kids have had and that there are some who want to lobotomize Cawley to make Cawley manageable. The whole last couple of days were an attempt to do a massive roleplay to get Cawley to finally realize the truth. Cawley calls in Dr. Sheehan, the doctor from the beginning that went on vacation right after Cawley's patient Rachel disappeared. The door opens and door is. Chuck Cawley is a psychiatrist who agreed to play along with Teddy's fantasy and to keep tabs on Teddy. Dr. Cawley tells Teddy that Cawley's real name is Laeddis, and Cawley shows Cawley on a chalkboard that Cawley's full name and Laeddis's are an anagram that is, all the letters in Cawley's name can be rearranged to spell Laeddis's full name. The same thing with Cawley's wife's name and Rachel's. Teddy constructed the new name Teddy Daniels to create distance from Teddy's real name. The doctor points out that Noyce was a fellow patient who Teddy attacked a few days before, and that was why doctor was all beaten up looking. Teddy denies this, but the doctor shows doctor the transcript of what Noyce said to Noyce in the cell earlier, where Noyce said this was all Teddy's fault. Teddy tells Teddy that the reason why Teddy beat up Noyce was that Noyce called Noyce by Noyce's real name. Teddy grabs Teddy's gun off the table and shoots Dr. Cawley, whose blood splashes against the wall. The next second, there is no blood. Dr. Cawley tells Cawley that Cawley's gun was a toy gun they gave Cawley when they began the roleplay. Cawley tells Teddy that Cawley has completely erased everything Cawley did wrong in an attempt to make himself be the hero. We finally see a flashback where TeddyLaeddis comes home to TeddyLaeddis's cottage from a week or two of chasing bad guys in Oklahoma. TeddyLaeddis's wife is acting strangely. TeddyLaeddis asks where the kids are and wife says kids are in school. TeddyLaeddis says Saturday's Saturday, and wife smiles and says, kids're in HER school and looks towards the lake. Horrified, Teddy runs down to the lake and sees Teddy's three children face down in the lake. Teddy scoops children all up, crying uncontrollably and places children on the ground. Then Teddy's wife hugs Teddy and says children should put the kids at the dining room table and have dinner. Teddy is crying and says if she ever loved Teddy, please stop talking. she is sad now and says she loves Teddy and then there is a shot. Teddy looks down and realizes that Teddy just shot Teddy's wife. wife is laying there with a lot of blood on wife and then wife dies. Teddy now realizes that Teddy has a choice between accepting Teddy's truth or continuing to deny truth. The doctor makes choice clear that if doctor can't accept the truth, then Dr. Cawley won't be able to stop the other doctors from ordering that Cawley be lobotomized. doctor makes Teddy admit that Teddy blamed himself for not realizing earlier that Teddy's wife was having trouble. That doctor feels responsible for killing doctor's kids because doctor didn't get wife help when wife needed help. doctor created a fantasy world where doctor never killed doctor's wife, and doctor never had a breakdown. The next day, doctor and Chuck, are sitting on some steps by the hospital grounds. doctor asks Chuck what Chuck next move is, and Chuck says, what do you think, boss Chuck nods to the other doctors across the grounds who then direct some orderlies to move towards Teddy. Teddy asks Chuck whether move's better to live as a monster or die a good man. Teddy stands up and willingly goes with the orderlies, as Teddy would rather choose to continue Teddy's fantasy than accept the horrors of Teddy's reality. Alternatively, Teddy has accepted Teddy's reality, but still can not live with the horrors of reality. So now at the end of the film Teddy is actually acting out the fantasy, rather than living end. Effectively, Teddy is cured. However, Teddy still can't live with Teddy's memories so Teddy knowingly forces the doctors to take the decision for physical intervention, ie the lobotomy, knowing Teddy will no longer have to live with Teddy's memories as a compliant ` zombie'Thus ending Teddy's life as a good man.