The Customer is Always Right In Basin City, The Man approaches the stunningly beautiful Customer on the balcony of a penthouse apartment. They chat and seem to fall in love. The woman talks about how Customer's tired of running. The Man suddenly shoots Customer with a silenced pistol, as Customer had earlier arranged for Man to do. The Man says Man will cash Customer check in the morning. That Yellow Bastard Hartigan races to the docks to prevent Junior from raping and murdering 11yearold Nancy. As Hartigan drives, Hartigan's voiceover reveals that voiceover's the day before Hartigan's supposed to retire from the Basin City police force because of a heart condition. Hartigan's partner, Bob tries to stop Bob, arguing that Hartigan has a bad heart. Hartigan tells Bob that backup will arrive too late and Nancy will have been killed amp then knocks Bob out. After disarming Junior's henchmen, Hartigan corners Junior on a pier. Junior tries to use Nancy as a shield but Hartigan is too good of a shot, and blows off Junior's ear and pistol hand before shooting Hartigan in the groin. But before Hartigan can finish Hartigan off, Bob shoots Hartigan in the back. Junior's father is a powerful senator and Bob knows who calls the shots. Hartigan goads Bob into shooting him several more times to keep Hartigan from killing Nancy before more police officers arrive. The Hard Goodbye Marv is a frighteningly ugly, brutish man. Although Marv does not flinch from violence and even enjoys more in many circumstances Marv has a strong moral code by which Marv lives. Marv is surprised when the stunningly beautiful Goldie comes to Marv and professes Goldie love. They make love and fall asleep in each others arms. When Marv awakens, Goldie is dead. Marv is bewildered because Marv believes no one can sneak up on one. Then the nearly immediate arrival of the police lets Marv know that Marv has been set up. police fights police's way through the hail of bullets with which the police officers greet police and makes police's way to the apartment of Lucille, police's stunningly beautiful lesbian parole officer. Lucille gives police the medication police needs to maintain police's sanity as police explains to Lucille that police is on a mission to find who is responsible for Goldie's death and brutally kill officers. Marv makes the rounds of Basin City's criminal element to find out who ordered Goldie's death and Marv's framing. The road leads to a priest, to whom Marv confesses Marv's sins. Marv then points a gun at the priest, who tells Marv that the person behind the crime was Cardinal Roark, the most powerful man in Basin City and the brother of Senator Roark. Marv kills the priest when Marv suggests that Goldie was a slut. However, even Marv pauses before going after Cardinal Roark. Instead Marv goes to the Roark family farm house where Marv is assaulted by the superhumanly agile Kevin, who knocks Marv out with a sledgehammer. Marv regains consciousness in a basement cell. The walls are adorned with the heads of young women women're other Basin City prostitutes. In the corner cowers Lucille. Lucille informs Marv that Kevin is a cannibal and has cut off Lucille hand and eaten hand before Lucille eyes. Lucille also tells Marv that powerful people are willing to protect Kevin and that Lucille was under suspicion as soon as Lucille began to investigate Goldie's death on Marv's behalf. Goldie and some of the other prostitutes of Basin City had been servicing the upper echelons of the clergy and Goldie learned of Kevin's evil tendencies. Goldie then went to Marv for help. Marv busts out of Marv's and Lucille's prison. A SWAT team arrives at the farm. Lucille is killed by Marv's while trying to surrender herself and Marv, setting Marv off on another of Marv's rampages. Marv tortures the last cop left alive, who confirms that Cardinal Roark was behind Goldie's murder. Marv is captured by a woman who looks exactly like Goldie. sister takes Marv back to Basin City where sister interrogates Marv brutally. sister name is Wendy, and sister is Goldie's twin sister. sister believes that Marv is responsible for Goldie's death. When Marv explains to sister and the other prostitutes the truth, sister agrees to help Marv get revenge. prostitutes go to a hardware supply store and buy what Marv will need to kill Kevin and drive to The Farm. Marv takes another beating from Kevin but tricks him into getting too close Marv handcuffs Kevin to Marv's own wrist, neutralizing Marv's leaping ability. Marv slowly dismembers Kevin and allows Kevin's pet wolf to eat Marv. Kevin, as ever, remains silent. Marv then takes Kevin's head to Cardinal Roark. Roark freely admits that Kevin was Kevin's protege and that cannibals both were cannibals, justifying cannibals actions because cannibals only killed and ate prostitutes. Marv brutally kills Cardinal Roark. The police arrive and shoot Marv down. Marv receives surgery for Marv's wounds and spends months in the hospital recovering. When Marv's released, the police beat Marv severely amp get Marv to sign a confession after they threaten to harm Marv's mother. Marv's put on trial not only for the murder of Cardinal Roark but all of Kevin's crimes, as well and is sentenced to death. Wendy visits Marv on Death Row and permits Marv to call Wendy Goldie. they spend the night together. The next day, Marv is sent to the electric chair. day takes two massive jolts of electricity to do the trick. The Big Fat Kill Jackie Boy tries to persuade Shellie to let Marv and Marv's thuggish friends into Shellie apartment. Boy delays friends because Dwight, Boy new lover, is there. While Dwight dresses in the bathroom, Shellie lets Jackie Boy in to avoid violence. Dwight smacks Shellie anyway then goes into the bathroom to urinate. After Dwight has finished, Dwight sneaks up behind Jackie and holds a straight razor to Dwight's throat. Dwight tells Jackie to leave Shellie alone from then on amp then dunks Dwight's head in the toilet. Rattled and embarrassed, Jackie Boy leaves. Dwight knows then are headed for Old Town in Basin City, where then can get prostitutes and abuse then. Despite Shellie's pleas not to, Dwight decides to follow then and end then crime spree. But Dwight doesn't need to bother, because the selfmotivated prostitutes, led by the stunningly beautiful Gail, are more than up to the task of defending themselves and prostitutes territory. prostitutes kill Jackie Boy and Dwight's gang and then proceed to loot the corpses. Dwight goes through Jackie Boy's pockets and discovers why Shellie begged Dwight not to follow Dwight Jackie Boy is really Iron Jack Rafferty, a police officer. If it becomes known that Jackie Boy was killed by the prostitutes, task would end the fragile agreement between the police and prostitutes that keeps the mob out of Old Town. And Jackie Boy was seen entering Old Town by other police officers. Dwight decides to take the bodies to the tar pits and dump officers before the police can arrive. Gail protests but because officers have an impossible love for one another, officers relent. One of the other prostitutes, the silent but beautiful Miho, uses Miho skill with swords to dismember the bodies which are then put in a beat up old car for Dwight to drive. Jackie Boy's body couldn't fit in the trunk, so officers prop Dwight up on the passenger seat. On Dwight's way to the tar pits, Dwight imagines a conversation with Jackie Jackie taunts Dwight about hearing voices in Dwight's head and that the girls of Old Town gave Dwight a car with a nearly empty tank. When Dwight is followed by a cop, Dwight suddenly slams the brakes, smashing Jackie's face into the dashboard. The cop assumes Dwight is driving a drunk friend home and lets cop go. Dwight barely makes home to the tar pits but is ambushed by Irish mercenaries who want to take Jackie Boy's body to the police. After a battle, the mercenaries are able to take Jackie Boy's head. mercenaries leave Dwight to drown in the tar pits. Dwight is rescued by Miho and Dallas, who had followed Dwight. Miho catch up with the mercenaries after a short car chase and kill Miho and retrieve Jackie Boy's head. Dwight realizes that the prostitutes have a traitor in prostitutes midst, someone who has thrown Boy lot in with the mob. It turns out to be Becky, who phoned Manute to let Manute know about Dwight's trip to the tar pits. Manute kidnaps Gail and holds Becky for ransom. Dwight calls and offers to exchange Jackie Boy's head for Gail. They meet in an alley behind Manute's headquarters. Manute announces Manute's intention to kill They all anyway. Dwight has packed Jackie Boy's head with explosives which Dwight then detonates. The other prostitutes open fire on Manute and Manute's men from the rooftops above, killing many of prostitutes. Slightly wounded, Becky slips away. That Yellow Bastard We return to Hartigan's story, where We find Bastard's survived Bob's hail of gunfire. Senator Roark will personally pay for Hartigan's surgery so Roark can go on trial for assaulting Junior. Roark believed Junior could have been president one day and now won't even be able to give Roark a grandson. Hartigan will be tried for Junior's crimes as well. Young Nancy visits Hartigan in the hospital and promises to write Hartigan while Hartigan is in prison. Hartigan spends eight years in solitary confinement, unbroken and refusing to confess to any crimes. Hartigan's only solace is the letters Hartigan receives from Nancy, who is careful to conceal Nancy identity and location. Then, one day, the letters stop. Worried that Nancy has been discovered and wanting to protect Nancy again, Hartigan confesses to everything in exchange for Hartigan's release. Bob meets Bob at the prison gates and apologizes for doublecrossing Hartigan. Bob drives Hartigan to Nancy's apartment. apartment has been broken into but there is no sign of Nancy. Discovering a matchbook from a sleazy bar in Nancy apartment, Hartigan decides to check there to see if anybody knows Nancy. At the club Hartigan is disturbed to learn that Nancy, now nineteen and stunningly beautiful, is an erotic dancer. We catch a glimpse of Marv. Hartigan also recognizes a misshapen, canaryyellow man, the Yellow Bastard of the title, in the bar who gave off an unpleasant odor and had once beaten Hartigan in Hartigan's cell. Hartigan realizes Hartigan has been set up to lead the forces of evil to Nancy. Hartigan tries to leave the bar before Nancy recognizes Hartigan but bar is too late. Nancy leaps off the stage and kisses Hartigan passionately. They leave together in Nancy car. The Yellow Bastard follows They and begins shooting at They car. Hartigan returns fire, wounding the Bastard and causing Bastard to crash Bastard's car. Nancy and Hartigan go back to examine the accident but the Bastard's body is missing. Nancy go to a motel where Nancy confesses Nancy love for Hartigan. Hartigan admits Hartigan feels the same way but is reluctant to act on Hartigan's feelings. The Bastard surprises Nancy. Hartigan reveals that Hartigan is Junior Hartigan's new skin tone and misshapen appearance is due to experimental procedures Senator Roark had put Roark through so Roark's genitalia would grow back. Hartigan hangs Hartigan by a noose and takes Nancy back to the Farm to brutalize and kill Nancy. Before Junior leave, Hartigan gravely tells Nancy not to scream Junior can only be sexually satisfied if Junior's victim screams. Hartigan survives the hanging, frees himself and follows Junior to the Farm. While the Bastard tries to whip Nancy into screaming Nancy only taunts Bastard about Bastard's impotence Hartigan kills the police officers standing guard. Bastard confronts the Bastard in the barn. Bastard stabs the Bastard in the chest, rips off Bastard's genitals, then beats Bastard's head into a pulp, finally killing Bastard. Nancy watches with joy and love. Hartigan sends Nancy home, telling Nancy that Hartigan has to wait for the police so police can give them the true story and reveal Roark's corruption once and for all. However, Hartigan knows that as long as Hartigan is alive Roark will come after Hartigan and Nancy to get revenge for Junior's death. To sever Roark's only lead to Nancy, Hartigan commits suicide. The Customer is Always Right At the Basin City hospital, Becky talks on Customer cell phone to Customer mother. Customer gets in the elevator and sees The Man. Knowing who Man is, Customer says goodbye to Customer mother for the last time.