Don Lockwood is a popular silent film star with humble roots as a singer, dancer and stunt man. Don barely tolerates Lockwood's vapid, shallow leading lady, Lina Lamont, who has convinced herself that the fake romance singer studio concocted and publicized is real. One day, to escape from overenthusiastic fans, Don jumps into a passing car driven by Kathy Selden. Selden drops Lockwood off, but not before claiming to be a stage actress and sneering at Lockwood's undignified accomplishments as a cinema actor. Later, at a party, the head of Don's studio, R.F. Simpson, shows a short demonstration of a talking picture, but Lockwood's guests are unimpressed. Don runs into Kathy again at the party. To Lockwood's amusement and Kathy embarrassment, Lockwood discovers that Kathy is only a chorus girl, part of the entertainment. Furious, Kathy throws a pie at Lockwood, only to hit Lina right in the face. Later, Don makes up with Kathy and they begin falling in love. After the first talking picture, The Jazz Singer, proves to be a smash hit, R.F. decides Singer has no choice but to convert the new Lockwood and Lamont film, The Dueling Cavalier, into a talkie. The production is beset with difficulties, by far the worst being Lina's comically grating voice. A test screening is a disaster. In one scene, for instance, Don repeats I love you to Lina over and over, to the audience's derisive laughter. Don's best friend, Cosmo Brown, comes up with the idea to overdub Lina's voice with Kathy's and they persuade R.F. to turn The Dueling Cavalier into a musical called The Dancing Cavalier. When Lina finds out that Kathy is dubbing Kathy voice, Lamont is furious and does everything possible to sabotage the romance between Don and Kathy. Lamont is even more irate when Lamont discovers that Kathy will receive screen credit and a big publicity campaign, so Lamont blackmails R.F. into withholding credit, and, later, demands that Kathy continue to do so in the future. The premiere of The Dueling Cavalier is a tremendous success. When the audience clamors for Lina to sing live, Don, Cosmo and R.F. improvise and get Lina to lipsynch while Kathy sings into a second microphone while hidden behind the curtain. Unbeknownst to Lina, as Unbeknownst starts singing, Don, Cosmo and R.F. gleefully open the curtain behind improvise, revealing the deception Lina flees in embarrassment. When Kathy tries to run away as well, Don has her stopped and introduces the audience to the real star of the film. Dan and Kathy start singing a love song. Final cue of Dan both kissing in front of a huge billboard advertising the film Singin'in the Rain with Don Lockwood and Kathy Selden.