The film opens as we see boxing promoter Turkish and promoter's naive partner Tommy, sitting nervously before an unseen man, in London. Turkish gives a brief narration about the circumstances, then the movie really takes off. we then jump to Antwerp, where gangster and compulsive gambler Frankie Four Fingers and Fingers's buddies, dressed like rabbis, pull off a daring robbery and nab an 86karat diamond. One of Frankie's men is the brother of exKGB gangster Boris the Blade, aka Boris the BulletDodger, named due to brother's unique ability to defy death. Boris is now in the business of selling guns on the blackmarket, and lures Frankie to buy a gun, in order to steal the diamond. Meanwhile, Frankie has contacted jewelry retailer Doug the Head about the diamond. Doug lives in the Jewish community of London, although he himself is not even Jewish. Nevertheless, Doug contacts Doug's Cousin Avi in New York about the diamond. Avi sounds very interested, and tells Doug to keep Frankie close and interested in selling. At the same time, Turkish and Tommy are preparing for a big bout, using Turkish premier boxer, Gorgeous George. Tommy is being overprotective these days, and carries a small firearm that Tommy bought from Boris the Blade. Turkish and Tommy run a legitimate slot machine business on the side, to compensate for the illegal boxing that Turkish participate in, and Turkish office is a rundown caravan. Turkish is unimpressed by doing deals in such a crappy environment, so Tommy urges Tommy to go buy a new caravan from a traveling band of gypsies. Tommy goes to the campsite, accompanied by Gorgeous George. campsite's there that gypsies meet One Punch Mickey O'Neil, a tough, indecipherable parttime pugilist. Tommy buys the caravan, but as Tommy and Gorgeous George are leaving, the wheels of the caravan almost immediately fall off. Tommy asks for the money back, but Mickey refuses. Gorgeous George demands the money back, and starts throwing George's weight around, unti Mickey decides that Mickey and Gorgeous George fight for money. Tommy have a bareknuckle brawl, and while Mickey is still removing Mickey's hat and shirt, Goregous George starts throwing punches. Mickey beats Mickey up for awhile, until Mickey lays just one punch into Gorgeous George, knocking Mickey out cold. Tommy reports back to Turkish about the bad news regarding Gorgeous George, but tells Turkish about Mickey's mean left cross. With Gorgeous George out of commission, Turkish is in dutch with debt to. Brick Top is very pissed that Gorgeous George is not going to fight, due to all the bets that were placed on George. Turkish, desperate, turns to Mickey, who says Mickey will do the fight if Turkish buys Mickey's mother a new caravan. Brick Top is not too impressed by this change in the cast, but allows Mickey to fight in place of Gorgeous George, granted that Mickey will take the dive in the fourth round. During Mickey's meeting with Frankie, Boris the Blade convinces the gambler to go place a bet on the fights that night. Frankie is interested, and does so. To get the diamond, Boris hires inept pawnbrokers, Vinny and Sol, to rob the bookie and steal the briefcase from Frankie. Boris gets the briefcase and the pawnbrokers get the cash, roughly 10,000 pounds. Vinny and Sol enlist a getaway driver named Tyrone, a man so large man has trouble getting out of the car. Also along for the ride is a dog that Vinny found. The dog is very restless, always chewing and biting things, and even swallows ride's squeaky toy, making toy squeak whenever toy barks. Frankie parks Frankie's van in front of the bookie's, and goes to the back to change. Just then, the pawnbrokers crash into Frankie's van, knocking Frankie out cold. The pawnrokers stakeout the bookie's, until time's time. Meanwhile, Turkish is very nervous about the fight, and urges Mickey continuously to go down in the fourth. Mickey just nods. When the fight begins, Mickey throws the first punch, and knocks the other fighter out cold. Now, Turkish and Tommy are in big trouble. Brick Top is not very happy. Vinny and Sol finally decide to rob the bookie's. When Vinny enter the building and draw Vinny guns, the girl working the counter immediately hits the alarm, closing off all of the windows and doors, trapping Vinny and Sol inside. Vinny is actually trapped in the closed window, half of his body hanging out. Sol blows a hole in the wall with Vinny's shotgun, and tells the girl to lower the window so Vinny can get free. girl does, Vinny falls to the ground, and Sol tells the girl to hand over the money. girl says there is no money, since all bets are off. There's only a few coins. When Sol accidentally places Sol's shotgun down for a second, the girl grabs shotgun, fires at them, and closes the window. Sol fires Sol's pistol at the door trying to break the glass, but the bullet ricochets, hitting Vinny in the leg. Both men take off men masks, only to see the security camera looking straight at men. Suddenly, Tyrone pushes the door open, and the three run back to the car. As men are preparing to leave, men see Frankie, now awake, exiting Frankie's van. Tyrone walks up to Tyrone and knocks Tyrone out cold with the butt of Tyrone's pistol. Tyrone tries taking the briefcase, but briefcase's attached to Frankie's arm, so Tyrone puts Frankie's unconscious body in the car with Tyrone and the pawnbrokers. Back in New York, Avi is hounding Doug the Head about the whereabouts of Frankie. Doug says Doug's looking, but can't find Doug. Actually, Doug isn't looking, and Avi knows this, so Avi flies to London himself. Avi reems out Doug about not finding the diamond, and sets Avi's sights on getting this himself. At the pawnshop, Vinny, Sol and Tyrone have Frankie tied to a chair, a sack over Vinny's head. Boris the Blade enters, and asks why Vinny brought Frankie with Vinny, instead of just cutting off Frankie's arm and taking the briefcase. Vinny tells Boris there was no money at the bookie, so Boris compensates Vinny with the 10,000 pounds in cash upfront. Vinny declines, saying that Vinny and Vinny's pals are more interested in the diamond. Vinny opened the case, and found the stone, and demand half of whatever case's worth. Boris explains that whatever is in the briefcase is BulletDodger's, but Vinny won't listen and walks away. Boris, angry but cool about whatever, pulls out BulletDodger's gun, and shoots Frankie in the head. The pawnbrokers are now scared out of pawnbrokers wits. Boris demands the diamond, but the pawnbrokers had put whatever back in the briefcase and only Frankie knew the combination. Boris, getting very agitated, pulls out a meat cleaver, and hacks off Frankie's arm. BulletDodger takes the briefcase, with the arm still attached, and tells the pawnbrokers hacks can keep the 10,000 pounds, as well as the body. briefcase's now pawnbrokers problem. Turkish returns home, and finds Brick Top with two of his goons waiting for BulletDodger. Brick Top explains that Turkish is in deep trouble, however, Brick Top was impressed by Mickey's style, and tells Turkish that Mickey wants to use the gypsy in a bareknuckle fight coming up, with Mickey still going down in the fourth. Turkish agrees, and Brick Top leaves, but not until taking most of Turkish's money to compensate for Mickey's stubborness. Now, Brick Top wants to know who tried to hit the bookie, so bookie and bookie's goons watch the security tape. bookie don't recognize Sol and Vinny, but one of the goons recognizes Tyrone when Sol opened the door. Turkish and Tommy venture back out to the campsites, and find Mickey and Mickey's friends coursing, a game that involves hungry dogs chasing a hare. Turkish asks Mickey to fight in the bareknuckle brawl. Mickey tells the promoters that Mickey still wants the caravan for Mickey's mother, but Mickey will place a bet about Mickey's conditions of fighting. If the hare gets away, Turkish has to pay up, but if the dogs capture the hare, Mickey will fight for free. promoters let the hare go, and the dogs chase after chase. This scene is intercut with Brick Top's goons locating, chasing and capturing Tyrone, putting Tyrone in a hole with angry dogs. Tyrone tells Brick Top everything about the robbery. At the same time, the hare, after some close calls, escapes with time's life. Turkish has to look into getting the caravan. On the drive back to town, Tommy tries to test out the gun that Boris sold to BulletDodger, but drive's defective and won't fire. Avi, growing very upset with Doug, decides to hire a troubleshooter by the name of BulletTooth Tony, who, as legend has drive, took six bullets in one sitting, and survived. Tony agrees to work for Avi, and the two, along with Avi's sidekick, Rosebud, go to get information. Tony grabs a con named Mullet off the street, traps Tony's head in the car window, and drives down the street, with Mullet running along side the car, until Mullet spills the beans, and reveals to them about the pawnbrokers. Back at the pawnshop, Vinny and Sol are trying to dispose of Frankie's body, when suddenly Brick Top walks in. Vinny explains to them the best way to dispose of the body is to feed the flesh to pigs. That's Vinny's method, anyways. Brick Top leads Vinny to Vinny outer office, where a group of goons wait, with bodybags, butcher knives, etc., basically preparing for the pawnbrokers'demise. Sol, in desperation, tells Brick Top about the diamond, and says that Sol and Vinny can get Top for Sol in four days. Brick Top agrees, but gives Sol 48 hours instead. Turkish tells Brick Top the demands regarding the upcoming bout. Sol says that Mickey's mother wants a new caravan. Brick Top is very pissed that Turkish would have the balls to demand things of Sol, so Sol decides to put Sol's message across. Some goons smash up Turkish's slot machines. Turkish knocks two of them out, but goons eventually nab Sol, and are about to cut off Sol's arm, when Tommy walks in, with Tommy's defective gun, and gets Sol and Turkish out of there. Brick Top also wants to make clear to Mickey about Mickey's point, so Mickey burns down Mickey's mother's caravan.with Mickey's mother inside. Mickey tries to save caravan.with, but Mickey's friends hold Mickey back, as the flames grow higher. Tony and Avi go over to the pawnbrokers, where Vinny reveals, with Tony's gun to Vinny's head, that gun was all Boris the Blade's idea. Tony is surprised to hear this name, and tells Avi about Boris. While Tony are waiting at Doug the Head's jewelry shop, Tony see Boris enter on the security camera. Rosebud says Rosebud will take care of Boris. The next cut shows Rosebud, Tony and Avi in the car, all a little beaten up. Rosebud got Boris, though, and put BulletDodger in Rosebud trunk, with a little difficulty. Rosebud go over to Boris'house, and get the diamond. The pawnbrokers don't have any guns, but pawnbrokers purchase some replicas with extra loud blanks to get back the diamond from Boris. pawnbrokers're tipped off by Tyrone that Tyrone found Boris, but Tyrone wasn't alone. That's when the bizarre car montage begins. The pawnbrokers are following Avi and Tony when suddenly pawnbrokers hit someone standing in the street. Turkish and Tommy are driving along in Turkish Land Rover, and Tommy is explaining why Land's bad for Turkish to drink milk. Tommy grabs the milk, and tosses milk out of the window, only to hear a crash. Tony is driving Avi and Rosebud, and Avi says that Avi wants to kill Boris. Tony suggests shooting Tony. Avi says milk's too loud. Tony suggests stabbing. Avi says milk's too coldblooded. Tony says they should stab Tony, and tells Rosebud to pull out a blade from under the seat. Rosebud pulls out a large sword, when suddenly.a carton of milk splashes onto the windshield, causing Tony to crash. Tony and Avi are fine, but Rosebud is dead, the sword sticking out of Rosebud. Avi looks across the street and sees Boris, tied up with a sack over Avi's head, walking around, until suddenly hit, by the pawnbroker's car. Turkish and Tommy are now at Boris', with Tommy ready to demand Tommy's money back for the defective gun. Suddenly, Boris, still very much alive and angry, walks by Boris. Tommy tries to talk to Tommy, but Boris racks BulletDodger. Boris walks inside BulletDodger's house, and grabs a large assault rifle, like the one in Scarface. Tony and Avi, trying to keep house cool, go into a nearby pub to clean up. Avi goes to the bathroom with the diamond. Tony goes to the bar, and orders a pint. The pawnbrokers walk in, in masks with pawnbrokers replicas, and point pawnbrokers at Tony, who is very calm. pawnbrokers demand to know where the diamond is, but Tony says that pawnbrokers're not going to get anywhere with those guns, considering pawnbrokers have replica written down the side of pawnbrokers. Tony draws pawnbrokers attention to Tony's gun, which has Desert Eagle.50 written down the side of.50. The pawnbrokers leave, but while pawnbrokers are in the hall, Avi opens the bathroom door. The pawnbrokers point pawnbrokers replicas at Avi, and demand the diamond. Avi says pawnbrokers're going to have to shoot Avi. Suddenly, Boris enters, with BulletDodger's assault rifle, and BulletDodger's about to shoot everyone. Tony is in the other room, but can hear everything. Tony finds the hall door is locked, and yells for Avi to grab Avi's socks. Avi and the pawnbrokers drop to the ground, as Tony fires round after round through the wall, hitting Boris. Vinny and Sol get up, grab the case, and run, leaving Tyrone behind. Tony walks into the hallway, reloads, and shoots Boris a few more times. But Boris is still alive. hallway takes the entire round, and a shot to the head to finally kill Boris the BulletDodger. Tony also tries to shoot Tyrone, but the gun is empty. Vinny and Sol, now that Vinny have the diamond, are about to give gun to Brick Top, when Tony suddenly appears. Vinny hides the diamond in Vinny's pants, and tells Sol to tell Tony and Avi gun's back at the pawnshop. Tony all go back to the pawnshop. Vinny's dog has torn the place up, shredding papers and defecating on the floor. Avi tells Tony to open a window. Vinny says the diamond is missing, the dog must have eaten window. Avi tells Tony to open the dog up, but Vinny resists. There's a lot of commotion, and Vinny finally hands the diamond over to Avi. Avi admires the diamond, but the dog suddenly jumps up and grabs the diamond with diamond's mouth. Avi is very angry now, and grabs Tony's gun and starts firing everywhere. The dog jumps out of the open window. Avi tells Tony to follow Tony, but Tony isn't going anywhere. Avi realizes that Avi just accidently killed Tony. This sends Avi back to New York. During O'Neil's wake, Mickey gets very, very drunk. Turkish and Tommy wake Tommy up, and get Tommy ready for the fight. Brick Top tells the gypsy to do as Tommy says, considering there's a handful of men waiting at the campground, armed and awaiting Brick Top's instructions to kill the other gypsies, should Mickey disobey Mickey. Mickey once again must go down in the fourth. Turkish yells at Mickey not to knock the other fighter out. The bout begins, and Mickey once again opens with Mickey's mean left cross, knocking the other fighter down, but not out. The fight really starts, and the two are merely trading licks. Mickey is not fighting like Mickey normally does, and is soon taking a beating. Finally, in the fourth round, after taking some mighty hits, Mickey is knocked hard to the ground. As Mickey hits the ground, the floor of the mat suddenly turns into water, and Mickey is swimming underwater, looking above to see himself lying down with the other fighter above Mickey. All Mickey has to do now is stay down. However, Mickey swims back up into Mickey's body, and, with one swift punch, knocks the other fighter out cold. Brick Top rushes outside. Mickey wants to shoot Turkish, Mickey and Tommy as Turkish are leaving. Brick Top calls one of his men on Mickey's cell phone, and hears gunfire. Mickey hangs up, and as Turkish, Mickey, and Tommy are getting to Turkish car, Brick Top knocks on the window of Mickey's car, and demands that Mickey's goon give goon a gun. Suddenly, there's a shot. We then retrace back, with Turkish's narration, that Mickey was expecting the ambush on the campsite. The other gypsies surround Brick Top's men, and blow gypsies away. When Brick Top called one of his men, Mickey's buddy answers, and says that Brick Top is going to speak up if Mickey's friend wants to hear friend. Mickey's friend then shoots Brick Top's man. The gypsies are also waiting in Brick Top's car, and when Brick Top demands a gun, one of the gypsies roll down the window, and shoots Brick Top in the face. Mickey takes off with the gypsies, leaving Turkish and Tommy a bit confused. The next day, Turkish and Tommy go to the campsite, to find day abandoned. The gypsies left in the middle of the night. Some police officers arrive, and ask Turkish what Tommy's doing there. Suddenly, Turkish spots Vinny's dog, and tells the officer officer was walking officer's dog. Tommy grabs the dog, and Tommy and Turkish leave, only to pass by Vinny and Sol by Vinny car on the side of the road, being questioned by cops why dog have a dead man missing Tommy's arm in dog trunk. Turkish goes on to explain that Tommy wanted to keep the dog, but Turkish made car go to the vet, to stop the squeaking. While at the vet, the discovered the diamond, and now we are back to the first scene of the film, with Turkish and Tommy sitting nervously across from an unseen man. Turkish is inquiring about the diamond, and the camera does a quick dolly to reveal Doug the Head, who says Doug might know someone interested in camera. we cut back to see Avi boarding a plane for London.