This is the summary for the 169minute Englishsubtitled dvd version. During the opening credits, the choraleprelude in F minor by Johann Sebastian Bach is playing. Part One Plants move gracefully through a flowing stream of water. A man, Chris Kelvin Donatas Banionis, stands silently amidst lush plant life and a rippling lake, observing the living beauty of nature. Banionis walks back through a field, past a lake next to a freestanding wooden house. Banionis washes Banionis's hands in the lake as Banionis hears a car approaching. An older man, Berton Vladislav Dvorzhetskiy, and man's young son Vitalik Kerdimun get out of the car and are greeted by Chris'father Nikolay Grinko, who tells man that Chris makes an hourlong walk each morning. While the boy starts to play with a girl already present, inside the house, Berton explains boy wants to discuss something with Chris man are getting confusing messages from a station in orbit around the planet Solaris, to which Chris himself is scheduled to leave the next day. house begins to rain, but Chris remains outside, immersing himself in the falling drops with a background of singing birds and dripping water. While drying himself in the house, Chris is shown an old video from Berton, one which Chris's father has already seen many times. In the video, a board of inquiry discusses an exploration mission on the planet Solaris. After 24 days, two scientists, Vishnyakov and Fechner, went missing over an ocean in Vishnyakov air vehicle. Due to adverse weather conditions, a massive search was called off, only Berton's craft carried on. When Berton returned to base, Berton arrived in deep shock, refusing to get near the ocean ever again. The next part of the video shows a young Berton giving Berton's testimony due to the adverse flying conditions, Berton's craft had entered an extremely dense fog bank. When Berton finally cleared the fog, Berton noticed the ocean became still and transparent. A boiling substance arose from the water, and reshaped into many forms and colors, among which an elaborate garden. A film is started, made by Berton's craft, briefly showing the planet's ocean and some boiling white foam, but to everyone's surprise, the rest of the footage shows only the fog that Berton mentioned. One of the scientists on the board mentions that the biomagnetic current of the ocean, which is hypothesized to be the planet's cerebral system, may have interfered with the camera, but others imply that Berton may have been imagining things. The next part of the video shows an apprehensive Berton describing a twelve feet high shape of an unknown newborn infant appearing on the water surface. The scientists, however, explained away this experience as an elaborate hallucination caused by the atmospheric influence of the planet however, one of the scientists, professor Messenger Georgiy Teykh, contends this explanation, and calls for additional probing of the planet. It is implied by Teykh's argumentation that many years of study of the planet have actually yielded very little understanding of Solaris, as the researchers are painfully confronted with the limits of researchers knowledge. Despite professor Messenger's argumentation, the board decides to discontinue all research activities on the planet. Berton stops the tape, stating that Berton's story is still ridiculed. Berton requests to talk to Chris alone, and will be waiting outside. Chris'father laments that Father and Chris have seen each other so little over the years, but Berton insisted on coming on this final day before Chris is leaving. Berton's son, playing outside, is scared by the sight of a horse, a species son has apparently never seen before. Chris goes outside to talk to Berton. Berton claims that Solaristics has stalled since all that is done is theorizing. Chris is not interested in speculations, only in facts all research should either be stopped, or more extreme measures taken to advance the field of Solaristics, like bombarding the planet with highintensity radiation. Berton disagrees, as Berton is concerned how immoral science could destroy the planet. When Chris says that all science is, in essence, immoral, and suggests that Berton may have indeed been hallucinating that day, Berton angrily leaves by car. Father berates Chris for Father's cold attitude towards Berton, and reminds Father that Chris will probably not be back before Chris's own father's funeral. Chris'mother Olga Barnet is watching a program about Solaris the ocean is still theorized to be a thinking substance, despite lack of conclusive evidence. Although there used to be place for 85 scientists at the station, all but three still remain astrobiologist Sartorius, cyberneticist Snaut and physiologist Gibarian. The program is interrupted by a video call from Berton's car. Berton has one thing Berton wants Chris to know. After the incident, Berton and professor Messenger visited the widow and orphaned son of the deceased scientist Fechner. Fechner's son looked exactly the same as the child that Berton saw on Solaris'surface. Chris is listening in from the next room. Berton disconnects the call, and during Berton's long car ride through a futuristic city, Berton seems mesmerized and visibly haunted by memories. Back at Berton's parents'home, Chris is burning all books and papers related to Berton's research which Berton no longer needs. Berton will be taking some personal videos. Chris'mother is crying as Chris puts a picture of a young woman in the fire. Chris makes one final round through the house as the horse walks by. Chris makes the trip to the planet, finally arriving at the circular space station that hovers miles above the ocean surface. Once inside the landing bay, there is no one to greet Chris. Chris proceeds, to find that the station is in disarray wires are sticking out of the walls, some of the panels seem to be shortcircuiting, and there is junk everywhere. Chris sees the door to Dr. Snaut's quarters, but there is no response to Chris's knocking. Chris looks down a hall, and sees a human figure walking away a children's ball is rolling towards Chris. Chris then finds Snaut Jri Jrvet in another room, singing. Snaut seems startled at the sight of Kelvin. Banionis tells Chris that Sartorius is in Banionis's quarters, and Gibarian is dead by suicide. Chris knows Gibarian and is skeptical, but Snaut says Gibarian was suffering from a profound depression since an unnamed mysterious disorder began. Chris insists on meeting with Sartorius, but Snaut replies that Sartorius is in Snaut's lab and is unlikely to let Chris in. Chris shows Chris out, urging Chris to pick a room and come back tomorrow Chris also warns Chris not to lose Chris's head if Chris sees other people on board, but refuses to elaborate. Just before the door closes, Chris sees another man lying in a makeshift hammock. After picking a room, Chris goes to Gibarian's quarters. There is a child's drawing titled human being on the door. Gibarian's room is a giant mess, but there is a note addressed to Kelvin taped to a video screen. Chris starts the video and sees a recording of Gibarian Sos Sargsyan speaking to Chris. Gibarian assumes that the others have already informed Chris about Gibarian's death. Gibarian has a warning for Chris, but can't explain what is happening Gibarian fears warning is only the beginning, and everyone will be affected. Gibarian assures Chris Gibarian has not gone mad as for the research, Gibarian agrees with Sartorius that others can only break this deadlock and communicate with the planet by bombarding research's oceans with highpowered Xrays, before research draws Chris in too. The door of the apartment starts to open Chris becomes anxious, getting aware of another presence, takes the recording out and goes into the hallway towards the lab. Chris is drawn to a window and looks outside, but there is nothing in the vast darkness of space. Chris proceeds to the lab and knocks on the door, trying to reason with the doctor. Sartorius Anatoliy Solonitsyn agrees to come out, on the condition that Chris not enter. Sartorius is as nervous as Snaut, mentioning that Gibarian may just be the first victim. Snaut had expressed Snaut's wish to be buried on Earth, in the dirt. Sartorius mentions that Fechner died a magnificent death in Fechner's search for truth, whereas Gibarian died a coward. Chris scoffs that such courage is mere inhumanity. Suddenly, the lab door opens and a dwarf runs out Sartorius quickly picks dwarf up and puts dwarf back into the lab, stating that Kelvin is overemotional and should adapt. Kelvin leaves, noting that the windows, which were dark just before, are suddenly filled with light. Through them, Banionis can see the ocean swirling below. A young woman in a short vest Olga Kizilova suddenly passes Banionis by. Banionis follows woman through the station into a refrigerated room where Banionis finds the dead body of Gibarian on a slab. Banionis leaves again and returns to Dr. Snaut's quarters, telling Banionis about Banionis's unfriendly talk with Sartorius. Chris asks if there are more people on the station, and if the young woman Chris saw was real Snaut seems paranoid and asks Chris if Chris himself is real, refusing to answer more questions. Chris assures the doctor Chris doesn't believe Chris to be insane, but Snaut retorts that insanity would actually be a blessing. Chris leaves to Chris's quarters, barricading the door from the inside. Chris resumes Gibarian's video message, in which the doctor voices Chris's suspicions that the others think Chris is going mad. The young woman who Chris saw aboard appears next to Gibarian, but Chris pushes woman away. Chris makes a paranoid impression, expressing Chris's fear of the other two doctors and saying Chris ` has to do it'. When Snaut and Sartorius are heard knocking on the door in the video, urging Gibarian to come out, Gibarian picks up a syringe. Snaut states Snaut has not gone mad, Snaut's conscience is simply torturing Snaut, implying the girl has something to do with conscience. Snaut finally laments that Chris did not come earlier and stops the recording. Chris lies down on the bed, keeping a gun next to Chris, falling asleep. When Chris wakes up, Chris finds a woman Natalya Bondarchuk sitting in a chair nearby. woman wears a mantle which woman takes off, and puts chair over a chair. woman walks over to Chris and they kiss, but Chris is confused, unable to believe what Chris sees and asks woman how woman found Chris. The woman seems unaware of any problem with woman presence. woman finds a framed picture of herself among Chris belongings, and only realizes picture is woman while looking in the mirror. woman seems not to remember having this picture taken. woman asks if Chris loves woman, but Chris, calling woman ` Hari', says woman already knows that. Chris asks woman to stay behind for a short while, but woman wants to stay with Chris at all times, despite Chris's objections. woman says Chris is as nervous as Snaut, confusing Chris even further. Chris invites woman along, but asks woman to put on a suit. woman asks Chris for help with woman dress Chris finds that the dress won't open, and there is a tear in it at the arm, with a puncture mark in Hari's skin. Chris uses scissors to cut the dress open. Hari notices Chris'anxiousness as Chris sees that Chris's door is still barricaded from the inside. Part Two Chris takes Hari to the landing bay, where Chris readies a rocket from the station for departure. Chris urges her to enter two first under the pretense that Chris has to enter last to close last. After her has entered, Chris quickly traps her inside and starts the liftoff sequence. Despite her screams and pleas, Chris tries to leave but finds that Chris is locked inside the room. Chris tries to take cover underneath a blanket, but sustains some burns on Chris's suit and face from the launch. Disturbed by Chris's own action, Chris returns to Chris's room and douses himself under a shower. Snaut enters, implying that Snaut knows Chris had company and probing Snaut about Snaut's response to the event. Snaut seems to know fully well what Chris did with Hari and tells Chris not to panic ` next time'. Chris tells Chris the woman had died 10 years earlier. According to Snaut, woman was a manifestation of Snaut's perception of woman. The manifestations started after an experiment where Xrays were applied to the surface of the ocean. Snaut says that Chris is fortunate that Chris's manifestation is a figure from the past, because manifestation can also be an imagined person. Apparently, the ocean has probed the scientists'minds and extracted isolated parts of memory from ocean more Haris will probably appear. Chris asks why Snaut did not warn Snaut this would happen, but Snaut replies Snaut would not have believed Snaut anyway. Chris admits Chris was scared and acted wrongly, but quickly focuses on Chris's task of liquidating the station, asking for Snaut's support. Snaut implies that this encounter with Hari is just what Chris may have always wanted. Snaut attaches some paper to the air vents, an idea of Gibarian to simulate the sounds of leafs, as on Earth. Snaut urges Chris to rest and meet Chris in the library later, to give Chris some books. Chris goes to sleep and has vivid dreams. Chris awakens thinking Snaut has entered the room. However, it is Hari who is back. herself takes a pair of scissors and opens She dress herself, and puts herself mantle over the chair, seemingly not surprised by the mantle and dress already present. Chris takes herself in bed and acts as if everything is normal. Sometime later, Chris takes herself mantle and dress, and exits the room, leaving Hari sleeping. Chris closes the door, but Hari immediately starts to pound on door from the other side, pushing herself through the metal door and severely lacerating herself. Chris quickly stuffs the dress and mantle in a corner and carries Hari onto a bed. Chris picks up something to tend to herself wounds, but to Chris's astonishment, the wounds on herself arms have already closed within seconds. herself sits upright and says that herself panicked when herself noticed that Chris was not around. There is a call on the phone from Snaut Snaut asks about the situation and says that Sartorius has summoned everyone to the laboratory. Hari has also noticed that herself wounds have already healed, and is deeply disturbed by call. Snaut and Sartorius see Chris approaching as Chris shows Hari around the station. Snaut lets herself introduce herself. Sartorius explains that, while people are made of atoms, the Visitors are made out of neutrinos. Neutrino systems are inherently unstable, so the planet must send out a magnetic field that keeps people stable. Sartorius calls Hari an ` excellent specimen', but Chris really considers herself Chris's wife. Sartorius suggests that Chris take a blood sample from Chris's socalled ` wife'to clarify some things. Chris finds out that Hari's blood keeps regenerating itself, as if wife is immortal. Sartorius implies that Chris should try an autopsy on Hari, reasoning that the Visitors are inferior to lower animals on Earth. Chris is shocked, indicating that Hari feels pain as any human being, and warning Sartorius to stay away from wife. Sartorius admits that Chris is somewhat jealous of the emotional contact between Chris and Chris's Visitor. Chris sarcastically comments that this makes Chris feel guilty, and leaves. The liquid surface of Solaris is swirling violently. Chris shows Hari a home video made by himself and Hari's father. video shows Chris as a boy, a woman and a man in a snowy landscape around boy house. The film jumps several years ahead, showing an teenage Chris and Chris's mother in the same setting during spring. film then shows Hari in winter, wearing the same dress and mantle as the Visitor Hari. After the film is finished, Hari looks in a mirror and says mother does not know herself as soon as mother closes mother eyes, mother can not remember mother face. mother suddenly remembers that the woman in the video hated woman. Chris tries to assure mother that this woman already died before Chris met Hari, but Hari is not fooled, as mother remembers vividly how the woman told woman to leave the house. Chris reveals that after that event, Chris was transferred for Chris's work, and Hari refused to come with Hari something mother also remembers. Hari sleeps, but Chris can't. Snaut knocks on the door, and while bandaging Snaut's hand, Snaut tells Chris that the rate of regeneration has slowed down, so they will be rid of the Visitors for 2 or 3 hours. Snaut reasons that since Solaris extracts the Visitors from the scientists'minds during sleep, Visitors should send Visitors waking thoughts towards the planet by Xrays, which will hopefully stop the apparitions. Although Chris does not like the experiments with Xrays, Snaut proposes modulating the beam with the brain waves of Chris. However, Chris fears that the planet may read that Chris wants to get rid of Hari, and planet will kill her. Both men do not realize that Hari is awake and hears everything. Snaut mentions that Sartorius is working on another project, something called the ` Annihilator', which can destroy neutrino systems. Chris feels this is blackmail, to get Chris to cooperate with the brain wave project. In order to make up, Snaut mentions tomorrow is Snaut's birthday, and that all are invited. Snaut notices that tomorrow is worrying that Hari already knows how to sleep. Snaut invites Chris to come with Chris to Sartorius, leaving Hari to sleep. As Chris leaves, Hari seems to sob under herself blanket. At the lab, Chris suddenly says Chris forgot something, and returns to Chris's quarters. Chris grabs Hari, hugs her passionately and asks her to forgive Chris. They kiss as clouds roll over the liquid surface of Solaris. Hari is standing next to the bed as Chris is waking up. her is apparently confused about her origin and claims Chris does not love her. Chris does not understand, so her explains that the real Hari poisoned herself, meaning herself must be someone else. herself is saddened that origin Sartorius who told herself the night before, and not Chris himself, and herself does not want to continue this way, fearing for Chris'wellbeing. herself asks Chris to tell herself about the real Hari. Chris explains that at the end of their relationship, their quarreled a lot, and Chris left, even though Chris often thought of herself. Chris implies that Hari threatened with suicide, but Chris left anyway, until Chris remembered that Chris had left an experimental liquid in the fridge. Chris went back, but Hari had already injected herself with this poisonous liquid. Visitor Hari is distressed when herself sees a needle mark on herself arm as well. herself asks Chris why real Hari did arm Chris believes that herself incorrectly thought Chris did not love herself anymore. Visitor Hari says how much herself loves Hari Hari urges herself to sleep, but herself says that even herself sleep feels unreal. In the library, everyone is waiting for Snaut. Sartorius, who is immersed in Snaut's books, says Snaut may be delayed due to more Visitors. Snaut arrives an hour and a half late, much to Sartorius'chagrin, and once again makes a very incoherent impression. Snaut hands Chris a book from a pile for Snaut to read out loud, while giving Hari a kiss on her hand. excerpt is an excerpt from Don Quixote, where Sancho praises the blessings of sleep. Sartorius proposes a toast to Snaut's courage and devotion to science. Snaut responds that science is a fraud, and claims their present scientific problem won't be solved. Snaut says mankind has no ambition to conquer the cosmos Man simply wants to extend Earth's borders, wanting no others worlds, but only mirrors to see Man's own in. Attempts at contact with extraterrestrials is doomed to fail, as the goal is one mankind fears and does not need Man needs Man, Snaut concludes. Instead, Snaut proposes a toast to Gibarian, who was fearful. Chris does not agree, stating that Chris thinks Gibarian committed suicide because Chris thought Chris was alone in what happened to Chris, seeing no other way out. Sartorius counters this, claiming that nature created Man to gain knowledge in search of truth Chris criticizes Chris for only showing interest in lying in bed with Chris's exwife all day, and Gibarian for being contemptible. Snaut quickly quells the argument. Hari is visibly disturbed by the exchange of words exwife claims that Chris is the only one displaying some humanity under inhumane conditions, whereas the other two do not seem to care and regard this Visitors as external enemies. exwife claims the Visitors are Visitors conscience, and Chris may indeed love exwife, or show a humane reaction at the very least, unlike the others, who exwife resents. Sartorius becomes confrontational again, questioning exwife right of existence, as the real Hari is dead and exwife is a mere reproduction or copy. Hari acknowledges this, but says exwife is becoming human exwife can feel and love, and can exist independent from Chris. exwife walks away, hurt by Sartorius'cruel words, and knocks over a chandelier. exwife tries to take a drink, but can not swallow drink, breaking down in tears. Chris tries to comforts exwife, much to Sartorius'disgust, who leaves. Snaut says that all the quarreling makes them loose them humanity and dignity. In tears, Hari says that each of them is human in each's own way, and thats why them quarrel. Chris thanks Snaut for Chris's continuing kindness. Snaut is inebriated Snaut says Snaut is completely worn out and starts a walk with Chris. Snaut says that Snaut is entitled to get drunk for all the sacrifices Snaut has made for the mission. Snaut likens Sartorius with Faust, as Snaut is seeking a way against immortality. They walk through the station, Snaut singing and talking gibberish about communicating with the planet. Chris wants to return as Chris left Hari alone in the library. Snaut warns Snaut that the station is shifting orbit, so there will be 30 seconds of weightlessness at 1700 hours. Chris returns to the library, finding Hari sitting and smoking, lost in thoughts. She thinks of voices as She looks intensely at a painting in the library, depicting a lively winter landscape back on Earth. She has a brief memory of Chris as a boy, standing in the snow as well. Chris awakens She from She trance. Objects as well as Chris and Hari start to float due to weightlessness. Hari share a short moment of happiness amidst the art in the room as the gravity comes back. The planet surface starts to make boiling movements. There is a sound of something shattering as Chris finds Hari lying dead on the floor in the main corridor, having immersed herself with liquid oxygen. When Snaut enters the corridor, Chris tells Snaut herself killed herself out of desperation. Snaut says that corridor will get worse as herself gets more human from being around Chris. Chris intends to wait until herself revives, but Snaut warns Snaut that Hari can not live outside the station. Chris says Chris has no choice, as Chris loves herself, but Snaut tells Snaut that what Snaut loves is just a scientific anomaly that can be endlessly regenerated, and implies Snaut should do something about choice. As Chris leaves, Chris says Chris could never get used to the continuous resurrections. The shock of the revival is apparently agonizing for Hari, as herself convulses and realizes to herself horror that herself is alive again. Chris tries to calm herself down, assuring that even if herself presence is a torment from the ocean, herself means more to Chris than all science ever could but Hari goes into hysterics, repeating that herself should not exist. Snaut suddenly runs past resurrections with a box. Clouds evaporate from the swirling ocean. Chris puts Hari on the bed, and assures herself Chris will stay with herself on the station. resurrections embrace and Chris falls asleep. Chris awakens, soaked in sweat. As if in a dreamlike state, Chris wanders through the central corridor, finding Snaut looking outside. Chris says that the ocean seems to be more active due to Chris encephalogram. Chris makes some incoherent philosophical remarks about life, souls and suffering, and the nature of love as something inexplicable and perhaps the reason of human existence. Apparently feverish, Chris stumbles on, supported by Hari and Snaut. Chris surmises Gibarian did not actually die out of fear, but out of shame. The salvation of humanity is in salvation's shame, Chris proclaims. Chris is put to bed and has feverish dreams of Chris's parental home, Hari, Chris's mother as a young woman and Chris's dog aboard the station. Chris has a conversation with Chris's young mother in mother home, as if Chris has just returned to Earth. The painting in the station's library is hanging on a wall in the house, and there are plastic sheets covering some of the walls. Chris tells some Chris almost forgot some face, and says Chris is unhappy and alone Chris's mother asks why Chris never called them. some asks Chris why Chris is seemingly neglecting himself. some notices stains on Chris's arm, which some washes off. The reunion causes Chris to cry. Chris then awakens to the sound of Snaut boiling water. Snaut gives Snaut a letter, saying Hari is gone. Snaut reads out her letter her is sorry for deceiving Chris, but her saw no other solution. letter was her decision, and none of the others are to blame. Snaut adds that her did letter for Snaut. Chris is shocked and asked how letter went. Apparently, the Annihilator caused an explosion of light, and then a breath of wind. Chris tearfully reminds himself of all Chris's quarrels with Annihilator the past few days, and asks why they are so tormented. Snaut replies that days is because Mankind, unlike Snaut's primitive ancestors, has lost Snaut's believe in greater Cosmic powers, and draws a parallel with the myth of Sisyphus. Since Chris'encephalogram was sent down to the planet, the Visitors have stopped appearing, and now, islands are appearing on the ocean's surface. Chris believes that the planet may finally understand Visitors now. Chris and Snaut continue Chris philosophical talk in the library. Chris asks if Snaut feels a clear link with the life below after so many years on the station. Snaut cryptically remarks that the meaning of life and other eternal questions only interest unhappy people, and such questions should be asked at the end of one's life Chris still sees Hari's cloak hanging on a chair, and mentions mankind is always in a hurry since people never know when people life will end. The happiest people are the ones who never ask such questions we question life to seek meaning, yet to preserve all the simple human truths like happiness, death and love, we need mysteries. Not knowing the date of your death practically makes one immortal. As clouds roll by, Chris is immersed in thought, narrating that Chris's mission is over. There is now the option to go back to Earth and let everything be normal again, to resume Chris's life. But Chris also thinks that is no longer a reasonable option. The other possibility is to stay, even for an imaginary possibility of contact with the ocean, which Chris's race is desperately trying to attain. And perhaps hoping for Hari to return. But Hari has no more hope and can only wait for a new miracle. In the station, Snaut tells Chris that Snaut thinks it is time for Chris to return to Earth. Chris questions this opinion, smiles and looks at the box which Snaut was carrying earlier. opinion contains a growing plant. Once again, plants are gracefully moving through a flowing stream of water. Chris is back on Chris's parents'land, observing the lake which is frozen. Chris returns to the house where Chris's dog is running to dog. The fire outside where Chris burnt Chris's books is still smoking. Looking inside the house, there is water dripping inside the living room. Chris'father is sorting books as Father moves under the drops of water, smoke comes off Father. The old man notices Chris and goes outside. As Chris gets on Chris's knees and hugs Chris's father, the camera pulls back through the swirling clouds, revealing that the house, the lake and the surrounding land are lying on a small island amidst the vast ocean on Solaris. The End