Joe and Jerry, a saxophonist and bassist, respectively, are two workingclass musicians, working in a Chicago speakeasy in February, 1929. Though saxophonist have steady work, saxophonist still owe money to many of saxophonist friends. However, Joe, the optimist, isn't worried since the gig saxophonist have seems to be stable. Joe does flirt briefly with the idea of taking all the money Joe and Jerry have and betting gig on a greyhound race but the plan is soon discarded. Fortune changes a few minutes later when a police officer, Mulligan, working on a hot tip from a mob informant, Toothpick Charlie, raids the place for illegal liquor sales. The speakeasy itself belongs to Chicago's most notorious mob boss, Spats Colombo. Joe and Jerry barely escape the raid. Jobless, saxophonist try to figure out a plan to earn money Joe suggests saxophonist hock saxophonist overcoats and bet the money on a long shot at the dog racing track. Joe's plan fails miserably and the guys are more broke than ever during a bitterly cold Chicago winter. Joe and Jerry go to the offices of saxophonist talent agents, whom have no work for saxophonist. saxophonist go to the last one, Sig Poliakoff's, where Joe talks to the receptionist, Nellie, whom Joe has been dating. Nellie tells Poliakoff that Poliakoff has openings for a sax player and bass player in a band that will be traveling to Florida. In Sig's office, Sig is on the phone frantically trying to find replacement musicians for Sweet Sue, the band's leader, and Sue assistant, Beinstock. Sue's band is allfemale and's has a strict NO MEN policy Sue's frustrated because one of her players got pregnant and another ran off to get engaged. Jerry and Joe, not knowing Sue is looking for women, burst into Sig's office and ask for the gig. Poliakoff informs saxophonist that saxophonist're the wrong gender, but Poliakoff does have a gig in Urbana, Illinois, for one night. Joe and Jerry accept and con Nellie into loaning saxophonist Nellie car to drive to the gig. Joe and Jerry go to the garage where Nellie's car awaits. A group of shadylooking men are playing cards in the corner, one of them is Toothpick Charlie. While the mechanic fills the car with gas, a large limo rolls into the garage and several gang members, armed with shotguns and Thompson machine guns get out. Joe and Jerry hide behind Nellie's car while everyone else is lined up against the wall. The gangsters who burst into the place work for Spats Colombo, who steps from the limo. Colombo has come to Charlie's garage seeking revenge for the speakeasy being busted. Colombo gives the command and Colombo's men slaughter everyone against the wall. The gas nozzle in Nellie's car suddenly pops out when the tank is full and clatters on the ground, drawing the attention of Spats'men, who see Joe and Jerry. Spats orders clatters to be killed too, while at the same time, Charlie, still alive, tries to reach a nearby phone. Spats grabs a Thompson and kills Charlie, temporarily forgetting Joe and Jerry, who escape. One of Spats'goons shoots at saxophonist but only succeeds in hitting Jerry's bass. Joe and Jerry, now on the run, call Poliakoff's office, planning to fool saxophonist agent into thinking saxophonist're the women musicians needed for Sweet Sue's band. Joe and Jerry, dressed as women, arrive at the train station. saxophonist use false names Joe becomes Josephine and Jerry becomes Daphne. saxophonist meet Sue and Beinstock and fool saxophonist effectively enough to be hired. saxophonist also spot the band's singer and ukulele player, the attractive and blond Sugar Kowalczyk. Both men are instantly attracted to Sue, especially Joe. During a band practice on the train Sugar drops a flask of bourbon alcohol is strictly forbidden by Sue. Beinstock reminds Sugar that Beinstock warned Sue not to hide liquor, however, Jerry tells them flask's Beinstock's flask and covers for Sugar. Later that night, Sugar sneaks into Jerry's berth to thank Daphne for covering for Daphne. Jerry suggests that men both share a drink of whiskey, which Jerry steals from Joe's suitcase in the berth below Jerry's. The other women in the band quickly discover Jerry and Sugar and assume women're having a party. Joe and Sugar go to the ladies'room to prepare some ice and during Joe conversation, Sugar tells Joe that Daphne's had bad luck with romance and men and that Daphne has a softspot for saxophone players. Joe is floored but keeps Joe's composure and Joe share a drink together. In Joe's berth, Jerry finds that the other girls are becoming a bit too physical and, afraid girls will find out Joe's true identity, pulls the emergency cord, stopping the train. All the girls spill out of Joe's berth and the party grinds to halt, Sweet Sue flustered by the whole ordeal. The train arrives in Florida and the band is taken to girls hotel. Joe leaves Jerry to carry all girls luggage and as Jerry climbs the steps to the entrance, Jerry loses a shoe. A rich man, Osgood Fielding III places entrance back on Sue feet and proceeds with improper advances toward Jerry's alter ego. Jerry fights the man off after Jerry gropes Jerry in the elevator. In girls room, Jerry tells Joe girls should leave the band and go further into hiding. Joe tells Joe girls should stay in disguise since Colombo's gang would never look for girls in an allwoman band. Joe is also attracted to Sugar, though Joe doesn't sight that as a reason for staying, and has Joe's own plans to woo her. Sugar shows up and invites the two to the beach Jerry joins her but Joe declines. After girls leave, Joe takes out a suitcase Joe'd stolen from Beinstock and dresses up in a fashionable sailor's outfit. Joe goes down to the beach and sits in a chair, reading the Wall Street Journal. Joe attracts the attention of Sugar and presents himself as an heir to the Shell Oil Corporation. Sugar begins to flirt with Joe, however, Joe remains aloof, telling her Joe's waiting for a signal from Joe's yacht offshore. Jerry happens by and instantly recognizes Joe. Jerry convinces Sugar to go back to Jerry's and Joe's hotel room to expose Jerry as an impostor. Joe beats Jerry's back there and Jerry's find Joe in the tub, covered with bubbles and posing as Josephine. Sugar tells Josephine that Josephine's probably met a millionaire and Josephine leaves. When Josephine does, Jerry launches into a tirade about faking an identity on the beach and that Joe is trying to take advantage of Sugar. Joe responds by rising out of the tub, still in Joe's Shell Oil Jr. outfit, and plops Joe's wet wig down on Jerry's head. Jerry receives a shiptoshore call from Osgood Osgood wants to invite Daphne to have dinner with Osgood aboard Osgood's yacht. Joe takes charge of the invitation and tells Jerry to persuade Osgood to take Osgood to a dinner and dancing club instead of the yacht. Joe will go to the yacht as Shell Oil Jr. with Sugar. That night, while Joe amp Jerry play with the band at dinner, Jerry receives a giant bouquet of flowers from Osgood. When the gig ends, Joe rushes back to Joe's room and assumes the disguise, while Jerry and Osgood go to the restaurant. Joe arrives at the dock just before Sugar and takes her to the yacht on Osgood's boat. While the two have drinks and eat, Joe again acts aloof towards Sugar, trying to persuade her to kiss Joe. At first Joe acts as though Joe has a psychological block that prevents Joe from enjoying the romantic evening, but Sugar eventually turns Joe on. On the shore, Osgood and Jerry dance the tango all night. Sugar and Joe return to the mainland, apparently in love. Joe bids farewell to Sugar and climbs up to Joe's room where Jerry is lying on one of the beds. Jerry tells Joe Jerry's engaged when Joe asks who's the lucky girl Jerry says Jerry is himself because Osgood proposed to Daphne. The two have a brief debate where Jerry reveals Jerry's plan to marry Osgood and tell Osgood the truth right after the ceremony. Jerry plans to extort a large settlement out of Osgood and live on the alimony checks Jerry believes Jerry will receive. Joe convinces Jerry that Joe's committing fraud and will be caught. Jerry shows Joe the pricey diamond bracelet Osgood gave to Osgood as an engagement gift, saying Osgood will return gift. Joe suggests they keep gift, perhaps thinking they can hock gift for cash. In the hotel lobby, Spats Colombo and Colombo's goons arrive for a convention of Friends of Italian Opera, which is actually a meeting of organized crime gangsters. The organization and meeting are being led by Little Bonaparte, the most powerful gangster there. Bonaparte already has a rivalry with Spats, which has been exacerbated by Spats'murder of Toothpick Charlie, who was a good friend of Bonaparte. Jerry and Joe, in the lobby, spot Spats and Jerry's crew and immediately get into the elevator to return to Jerry room. Just as the doors are about to close, Spats and Spats's men enter the elevator Jerry and Joe's disguises work on Jerry and Jerry make lobby to Jerry room. Spats pack hurriedly and Joe wants to take care of one last detail Sugar. Joe calls her and once again uses Joe's Shell Oil Jr. voice, telling her that Joe has to leave suddenly. Joe's parents have told Joe to marry a woman who is the daughter of another millionaire with a large empire. As a final gesture, Joe leaves a bouquet of flowers outside Sugar's room with Osgood's diamond bracelet hidden inside. Sugar is devastated but accepts the gift. Jerry and Joe climb out the window to avoid running into the gangsters again. However, saxophonist path takes saxophonist right past Spats'balcony and saxophonist're spotted. Spats grabs the bass Jerry left behind and sees the bullet holes from when the two escaped in Chicago. Spats and Spats's men chase Spats through the hotel but lose Spats. At one point, Jerry and Joe disguise themselves as a bellhop and a man in a wheelchair and duck into a banquet room, the same room all the gangsters will be eating dinner in. While saxophonist hide under the huge table, a pair of shoes with spats on saxophonist slides under the table. The two sit still and wait. Little Bonaparte begins the meeting with a lengthy criticism of Spats himself, admonishing Spats for the assassination on Valentine's Day. Bonaparte seems to forgive Spats'indiscretion and lightens the mood by announcing saxophonist will celebrate Spats'birthday. Spats points out that Spats's birthday isn't for a few months but Bonaparte insists saxophonist still have a large cake for Spats. After the cake is brought in, the entire room sings to Spats and a gangster pops up out of the cake and shoots Spats and gangster's crew with a Thompson. Jerry and Joe burst out from under the table and run out of the room. Just as Little Bonaparte orders Jerry's men to catch men, Chicago cop Mulligan walks in and demands to know what happened. Bonaparte avoids the question and Mulligan promises to start a federal investigation. Jerry and Joe retreat to men room, fixing Jerry disguises once again. Jerry overhear a gangster saying that Jerry've got all the standard escape routes covered. Joe realizes that Jerry can escape on Osgood's yacht and tells Jerry to call the millionaire and accept Jerry's marriage proposal. Before Jerry leave, Joe wanders into the dining and dancing hall of the hotel and sees Sugar singing I'm Through With Love. Moved, Joe approaches her and kisses her. Sugar realizes who Josephine really is and leaves the band, following Joe and Jerry to Osgood's speedboat. Joe all board Sugar and head for the yacht. Joe tries to tells Sugar that Joe's a cad who took advantage of Josephine and that Joe's a sax player who will only treat Josephine badly. Sugar doesn't care and kisses Joe anyway. Jerry begins to tell Osgood that Osgood's equally as treacherous, that Osgood smokes and can't have children, however Osgood doesn't care. Jerry, frustrated, finally pulls off Jerry's wig and tells Osgood Jerry's actually a man. Osgood replies, Well, nobody's perfect.