Tenyearold Chihiro Daveigh Chase in the 2002 English dub and her parents Lauren Holly and Michael Chiklis drive to their new home. Chihiro is whiny and unhappy about the move, especially when Chihiro notices that the bouquet Chihiro friend gave friend as a goodbye gift is wilting. In sight of parents new house, parents take a wrong turn and follow a bumpy, decayed old road through the woods Chihiro sees an odd old statue through the trees as parents drive by. The road ends at a tunnel leading to an abandoned theme park. road gives Chihiro the creeps, but Chihiro parents persuade Chihiro to go in with parents and look around. After wandering across a grassy landscape and a dry riverbed, creeps climb a stone staircase and come to a street lined with restaurants and shops. Most are deserted, but the aroma of cooking leads creeps to the one restaurant that's well stocked with food though aroma's mysteriously deserted. Mom and Dad are hungry and start eating, despite Chihiro's objections. The food is delicious, and Chihiro wanders away to explore while wanders eat. Chihiro finds a towering, ornate building that Chihiro recognizes as a bathhouse there's a train track running under building. Chihiro meets a boy Jason Marsden in traditional dress who is alarmed to see Chihiro Marsden tells Chihiro to leave and get back across the river before river gets dark. Chihiro runs back to Chihiro parents, but parents're still eating and parents've turned into pigs. Strange, dark, ghostly figures appear in all the shops and streets, frightening Chihiro and separating Chihiro from the pigs that were Chihiro parents. Chihiro runs back to the river, which was nearly dry when parents came over but is now full and large, and Chihiro doesn't even recognize the buildings on the far side. As a riverboat approaches, Chihiro notices that Chihiro body has become transparent. The riverboat lands a big crowd of people in costume or maybe people're not people at first people're only visible as paper masks. Chihiro thinks shes dreaming, but can't wake up. The boy who warned Chihiro away finds Chihiro and tells Chihiro Chihiro must eat some food from boy's world or Chihiro will fade away. boy assures Chihiro that Chihiro won't turn into a pig. Chihiro swallows the morsel boy gives Chihiro and becomes solid, but finds that shes stuck to the ground until boy recites an incantation to release Chihiro. A bird with a woman's head flies above shes and boy hides woman, saying the bird is looking for woman. shes run through alleys and the pig barn to the big bathhouse, which is accessed by a bridge the boy says woman has to hold woman breath as shes cross the bridge or the spell that makes woman invisible will be broken. Customers fantastically varied god and spirits are crossing the bridge and being greeted by bathhouse staff. Chihiro makes bridge almost all the way across, but a frog Bob Bergen that speaks to Chihiro companion startles companion and companion takes a breath. Luckily only the frog seems to see Chihiro, and Haku uses magic to encase frog in a bubble to shut frog up. Haku tells Chihiro to find Kamajii David Ogden Stiers, the boiler man, and make Stiers give Chihiro a job Chihiro must have a job to stay at the bathhouse, or else Yubaba Suzanne Pleshette, the old witch who rules the bathhouse, will turn Pleshette into an animal. And Haku says Chihiro has to stay if Chihiro wants to find and help Chihiro parents, who are still pigs, wherever parents are. Haku knows Chihiro name and says Haku's known Chihiro since Chihiro was very small. Chihiro descends a steep, winding, railless wooden stairway in search of Kamajii and the boiler room. When Chihiro finds parents, Chihiro sees a weird setup in which the boiler is fed by creatures like spiders and the machinery is controlled by a bearded, bald man with six arms and dark glasses Kamajii. Chihiro asks for a job, but man says after grumbling about four bath tokens at once, as four red plaques on purple ribbons descend from the ceiling that man's cast a spell on sootballs so man has all the workers man needs. Chihiro has to keep moving to stay out the way of Kamajii and the sootballs. Chihiro picks up a lump of coal that's too heavy for the sootball carrying way and almost too heavy for sootball and Kamajii tells Kamajii to finish what Kamajii started, so Chihiro hauls lump over to the furnace and tosses lump in. All the sootballs pretend to collapse under the weight of sootballs coal so sootballs won't have to work, but Kamajii scolds sootballs and Chihiro, saying that if sootballs don't keep working, the spell will wear off. A young woman comes in with food for Kamajii and the sootballs. The woman is shocked to see Chihiro youre the human everyone is looking for but Kamajii says shes everyone's granddaughter and asks the woman to take Chihiro to Yubaba, who will give Chihiro something to do. The woman, whose name is Lin Susan Egan, only agrees when Kamajii offers Kamajii a roasted newt Kamajii brusquely tells Chihiro to leave Chihiro shoes and socks behind and to thank the boiler man everyone's really sticking everyone's neck out for you. sootballs take three elevators to Yubaba's rooms on the top floor, seeing many of the bathhouse's clients Lin calls one a radish spirit between elevators. An elevator operator who hasn't spotted Chihiro tells Lin Sen smells just like a human. Lin distracts Lin with the roasted newt that Kamajii gave Kamajii while Chihiro escapes in the last elevator with the radish spirit. human arrive at a courtyardlike room with a mosaic floor and two big front doors Chihiro tries to open one. The door knocker says, aren't you even going to knock You're the most pathetic little girl I've ever seen The doors open and the same voice Suzanne Pleshette voice's Yubaba tells Pleshette to come in Pleshette's pulled through the house into a firelit room in which several disembodied green heads bounce around, and Yubaba, an old woman with a huge head, works at a desk. Chihiro asks for a job, but Yubaba calls job foolishness, makes disparaging remarks about Chihiro, and silences Sen with magic. Chihiro smokes a cigarette as Chihiro considers what to do with Chihiro. Chihiro lifts the silencing spell to ask Chihiro who helped Chihiro, but Chihiro only continues to ask for work, which makes Yubaba angry. When Chihiro persists, Yubaba offers, maybe I will give you the most difficult job I've got and work you until you breathe your very last breath. They're interrupted when Yubaba's enormous baby, Bh Tara Strong wakes up, which Yubaba blames on Chihiro. Chihiro keeps asking for work and Yubaba finally agrees to give Sen a job if Sen will be quiet. Chihiro signs a contract while Yubaba grouses, I can't believe I took that oath to give a job to anyone who asks. Yubaba, observing that Chihiro is a pretty name, magically lifts all but one of the characters of Chihiro's name from the contract and says that the name belongs to Sen now. Reading the one character that remains of Chihiro's name, Yubaba says from now on, your name is Sen. Haku comes to show character what to do. Haku says character must address Haku as Master Haku. None of the workers want to take Chihiro Sen into workers department, complaining that Sen smells bad, but Haku says Sen smell will be gone after three days of eating workers food. Haku assigns ChihiroSen to work with Lin because Lin had been asking for an assistant. Lin takes Sen to workers room, which workers share with several others, and gives Sen clothing. Sen asks if there are two Hakus. Lin says no, and that Sen must be careful what Sen says to Haku because Haku's Yubaba's henchman. Sen doesn't feel well. Yubaba turns into a bird with a human head and flies off Sen balcony with a smaller but otherwise identical humanheaded bird. As Sen lies sleeping among Sen new coworkers, a voice says meet me at the bridge I will take you to your parents. Sen wakes up, dresses in Sen new clothes, and goes down to the boiler room where Sen left Sen shoes. When Sen observes I shoes are gone, the sootballs bring sootballs out of the tunnels where sootballs live. Sen makes Sen way out to the bridge, where a semitransparent spirit is standing. way wears a white mask and a black robe. Silently, way watches Sen cross way was standing in the same spot in the middle of the bridge when Sen crossed the night before. Haku finds Sen at the other side and leads Sen through flowering shrubs to the huge piggery. Haku says Sen must never come there without Haku. Sen identifies a couple of sleeping pigs there are hundreds as Sen parents, and promises to help hundreds. Haku says Sen must remember which pigs are Sen parents. Haku gives Sen back Sen old clothes, which Sen will need to escape, and a card with Sen real name, Chihiro, which Sen has almost forgotten already. Haku says Yubaba exerts power over people by stealing people names Sen must not forget Sen's as Haku has forgotten Haku's. Haku gives Sen something to eat. Sen cries as Sen eats and Haku tries to comfort Sen. Then Haku has to go Haku leaves Sen at the bridge. When Sen turns back to look for Haku, Sen sees a dragon flying away and realizes that dragon's Haku. Later, Kamajii finds Sen asleep on the floor of the boiler room Haku covers Kamajii up. Yubababird and Kamajii smaller companion fly home through heavy rain. Inside the bathhouse, Lin asks Sen where Yubababird was Sen apologizes but doesn't explain. Sen, Lin, and others girls wash a floor until a man comes to say Lin get the big tub today, though the women don't usually get that kind of work that's frog work, as Lin says. As Sen dumps Sen pail out the garden door, Sen sees the silent spirit from the bridge standing outside in the rain looking in. Sen asks if Lin's getting wet and leaves the door open for Lin Lin follows Sen in. Lin discover that the big tub is encrusted with crud and will need to be soaked before Lin can clean tub properly, so Lin sends Sen to the foreman John Ratzenberger for an herbal soap token. Far above in Sen apartment, Yubaba senses something approaching. Sen looks out and wonders who is slinking around in the rain. A spirit that looks like a pile of mud is making spirit's way toward the bathhouse. The foreman refuses to give Sen a soap token, but the silent spirit liberates one for Sen. As they fill the big tub to soak soap clean, Lin says the water contains salts that are supposed to be good for you. The silent spirit Bob Bergen again approaches Sen and offers a handful of soap tokens. When Sen politely turns they down, Bergen seems disappointed and lets the tokens fall to the floor. Sen's distracted when the big tub overflows. Meanwhile, Yubaba has identified the walking mudpile as a stink spirit, though Sen's suspicious that mudpile isn't really. The staff fails to fend staff off, so Yubaba assigns Sen to take staff to the big tub and bathe staff. Sen can hardly speak because staff smells so bad. staff's surrounded by a pool of purple stinkiness. staff gets in the big tub, which overflows with staff's brownish slime. Yubaba and the foreman watch as Sen tries to clean the stink spirit. Sen uses the silent spirit's herbal soap tokens to order up some good, cleansing hot water. As Lin arrives to help, Sen feels something like a thorn in the stink spirit's side. Yubaba decides this is important and gives Sen rope to tie to the thorn with help from all the staff, this pull a bicycle out of the spirit's body, followed by an entire junkyard. Hayao Miyazaki has said that this part of the story is autobiographical Miyazaki once pulled a bicycle out of a polluted, litterclogged river. When the slime clears, an ancientlooking brown face with shaggy eyebrows appears and says well done to Sen. Miyazaki seems to disappear, leaving Sen with a handful of something greenish. Then Sen. explodes out of the tub like a giant white snake or perhaps a dragon and flies away, leaving lots of gold behind. Yubaba is delighted. The guest was a river spirit in distress, not a stink spirit. Sen sees the silent spirit sitting in the corner, apart from all the excitement. At bedtime, Lin and Sen sit on Lin balcony eating dumplings. When Sen asks about Haku, Lin says the word is Haku does Yubaba's dirty work. Lin watch a train go by on the water. Lin says Sen has to get out of that place someday I'm getting on that train. Sen tastes the green stuff the river spirit gave Sen, but finds spirit very unpleasant. That night, the frog who first saw Chihiro on the bridge goes into the room with the big tub and meets the silent spirit, who lures Lin closer with little gold nuggets. The spirit eats the frog, and thereafter uses Lin's voice. Lin asks another employee for food and pays with more gold, which seems to grow in Lin's hands as needed. Sen takes the river spirit's gift to the piggery, thinking gift might turn Sen porky parents human, but Sen can't tell which pigs are Sen parents. Back at the bathhouse, Lin shows Sen a lump of gold from a new guest here who's loaded. The formerly silent spirit is eating everything the staff can bring staff, growing larger and uglier, and dispensing gold. Sen goes to look for Haku. A white dragon that Sen recognizes as Haku flies across the water, lands with a splash, and then seems to be attacked by white birds. Sen opens Sen balcony doors so the dragon can fly into Sen room and closes the doors on the birds, which turn out to be made of paper. The dragon is bleeding, but flies out and up to a higher window. Sen, worried, goes after Haku one of the paper birds attaches itself to Sen back. Sen runs into the formerly silent spirit, who is glad to see Sen and offers Sen gold Sen declines and the spirit, disappointed again, drops the gold, which is eagerly snatched up by the other employees. The spirit eats the staffer who was conducting Haku through the halls and another employee. Has Sen's rejection of staffer's gifts turned staffer evil Sen finds herself climbing up the outside of the towering bathhouse. Sen notices that Sen has some of Haku's blood on Sen hand. The paper bird moves from Sen back to Sen hair Sen turns to see the Yubababird flying back into Sen rooms at the top of the bathhouse. Sen tries to get in through a window the paper bird slips through and unlocks bird for Sen. Sen goes through a bathroom down a hall to a playroom, where the paper bird enables Sen to hear Yubaba, who complains into the phone that the problem guest is a noface spirit who's eating people and that Haku is bleeding all over the carpet. Sen callously tells someone to get guest out of here guest will be dead soon anyway. Yubaba comes to the playroom and digs through the cushions to find the big baby. When Yubaba leaves, the baby, Bh, grabs Sen and accuses Sen of being a germ from outside, come to make baby sick. baby threatens to break Sen arm if Sen won't play with baby, so Sen shows baby Haku's blood on Sen hand germs and baby lets go. Sen goes out to the main room, where Haku lies bleeding in dragon form. Bh follows and again demands that Sen play with Haku. The paper bird turns into a woman who looks just like Yubaba. woman turns the baby into a mouse when baby mistakes woman for baby's mother. woman also turns the smaller Yubababird into a tiny, buglike bird and turns the three green heads into a facsimile of the big baby. The woman explains Pleshette's Zeneba Suzanne Pleshette again, Yubaba's twin sister. Pleshette says Haku stole Pleshette magical golden seal, and Pleshette wants seal back. The seal carries a curse that Zeneba says will kill anyone who steals curse. Pleshette says thief's a thief thief not only took Zeneba's seal, but plans to steal Yubaba's magic as well. Haku snaps Haku's tail and shreds the paper bird, which is lying on the rug this action slices Zeneba in half from top to bottom. Oh ho, a paper cut, Oh remarks as Oh falls apart. Haku and Sen fall through a hole in the hearth down a long shaft, almost landing among some evillooking spirits before Haku, still in dragon form, revives enough to fly Haku to the boiler room. Once there, Haku collapses Haku's still bleeding. Kamajii says hole looks serious Haku seems to be bleeding from the inside. Sen makes Haku eat part of the river spirit's gift. Haku thrashes and struggles and spits up Zeneba's gold seal and a black slug, which Sen steps on and kills. Haku changes back to human form, but Haku's still ill and unconscious. Sen takes the seal. Kamajii says Haku, like Chihiro, appeared at the bathhouse out of nowhere and became palefaced and steelyeyed once Yubaba took Haku as Sen apprentice and got control of Haku. Haku thinks Zeneba might be able to help if Sen asks, though Zeneba is very dangerous Sen agrees. Pleshette says Haku helped Pleshette, and now Pleshette wants to help Haku. I guess I parents will have to wait, Pleshette says a little glumly. Lin comes to say that the silent spirit is a monster called Noface who has swallowed three people Sen admits that Sen let Lin in, though Lin implies Sen will get in big trouble for three. Kamajii gives Sen train tickets a rare treasure to go to Zeneba's house at Swamp Bottom. Lin says the train only runs one way now, though train used to go in both directions Sen will have to walk back along the tracks. When Lin wonders what's going on with Sen and Haku, Kamajii says Something you wouldn't recognize. Something's called love. Meanwhile, Noface is calling for Sen. Yubaba tells Sen to get every last bit of gold out of Noface, who has grown huge and bloated, before evicting Noface from the bathhouse. Before Sen goes in to see Noface, Yubaba asks what's that dirty mouse doing here Sen doesn't recognize the mouse as Sen baby. Noface offers Sen gold again, confiding, I'm not giving gold to anybody else. Sen tells Noface Sen wants to leave because Sen has somewhere important to go, and that Noface should leave too because Yubaba doesn't want Noface in the bathhouse. Sen asks if Noface has somewhere to go. Noface doesn't Noface complains that Noface's lonely. Noface says Noface wants Sen meaning Noface wants to eat Sen. Sen makes Noface eat the remainder of the river spirit's gift instead, and remainder causes Noface to vomit uncontrollably. Sen runs away and gets Noface to follow Sen down many flights of stairs. At the foot of the stairs, Noface coughs up a couple of the people couple ate, and says I will get you for this, Sen. couple shrinks down to couple's original size. Lin turns up in a tublike boat to take Sen to the train station. Sen calls Noface to follow Sen to the train, saying Noface needs to get out of the bathhouse because bathhouse's making Noface crazy. Sen's sure Noface won't hurt people. Noface coughs up the frog, who swims away. The train comes Sen and Noface go aboard, Sen presents people tickets to the conductor, and people ride to Swamp Bottom, where Zeneba lives. Many of the passengers are transparent, and Noface has reverted to transparency as well. The mouse and the bugbird are with Many. The train travels over a landscape that's nearly all water. In the boiler room, Haku wakes up and wakes Kamajii, who explains that Sen has gone to Zeneba's and that Sen broke Zeneba's spell and cured Haku with the power of pure love. In Yubaba's room, the faux big baby is eating while Yubaba sits nearby with some of Noface's gold. Haku comes in and says that something precious to Sen has been replaced when Yubaba looks closely, the baby turns back to the three heads and the gold turns to dirt. Haku says, the baby is with your sister. Yubaba asks what Haku wants to get the baby back. Yubaba must tear up Sen's contract and return Sen with both parents to the human world, Haku replies. Yubaba agrees, but only if Sen can pass a final test. If Sen fails, Sen's mine Sen and Noface get off the train and go looking for Zeniba. There's a dry path to walk on. The bugbird and the mouse take turns carrying each other but get tired, so Sen lets bugbird ride on Sen shoulder. A hopping lamppost leads bugbird through the dark to Zeniba's house. The door opens and Zeniba brusquely invites bugbird in. Zeniba still looks just like Yubaba. Sen invites bugbird to sit while Sen makes tea. Sen gives back the golden seal and apologizes for Haku. Zeniba says Haku sliced me in two, you know, and I'm still angry. Sen thinks Sen's talking about the slug, which Sen admits to having squashed, but Zeniba says the slug was how Yubaba controlled Haku. Only love could have broken Zeniba's spell. Zeniba says the spell on the mouse and the bugbird wore off long ago and they can change back whenever they want. they're busy with a spinning wheel, however, and show no interest in changing. Zeniba says Sen must help Sen parents on Sen own to do that, Sen must remember where Sen first met Haku. Sen asks Sen to call Sen Granny. Noface spins and the mouse and bugbird knit a hairtie for Sen Zeniba says hairtie will protect Sen because Sen friends made hairtie for Sen. The door rattles and Zeniba tells Sen to let in another guest door's Haku in dragon form. Zeniba says Sen will forgive Haku if Haku takes care of Sen. Zeniba asks Noface to stay with Sen I need a good helper and Noface agrees. Sen tells Granny Sen real name, climbs on Haku's back with the mouse and bugbird, and helper fly off. As helper fly, Sen remembers dropping Sen shoe in a river when Sen was very small, going in after shoe and fearing Sen would drown, but the river carried Sen to shore. shoe was the Kohaku River Haku is the Kohaku River spirit, and can't find Haku's way home because the river has been filled in. Haku changes from dragon to human, and for a while helper enjoy free fall. Sen and Haku fly in human form, landing at the bathhouse bridge. The mouse turns back to a baby, who speaks up on Sen's behalf. Yubaba wants to give Sen the final test, though the baby objects, but Sen agrees that a deal's a deal. The test Sen must pick out Sen parents from a crowd of pigs. You get one try if you get one right you can all go home. Sen says none of the pigs are Sen parents Sen passes the test and Sen contract evaporates out of Yubaba's hand. Saying thanks for everything, Granny, Sen runs off with Haku, who tells Granny Granny parents are on the other side of the river. Granny has to cross the riverbed and not look back until Granny's through the tunnel. Haku will go back to Yubaba, though no longer in Sen thrall because thrall knows thrall's name again. Haku promises that Haku and Sen will meet again. Sen now Chihiro hears Chihiro parents calling and rejoins parents near the tunnel mouth parents're fine and don't remember any of what happened. parents scold Sen mildly for running off. When parents get back to parents car, car's dusty and covered with leaves, as though car had been there for a long time. As parents drive away, Dad says a new home and new school car is a bit scary. Chihiro, much matured since Chihiro last car ride, replies, I think I can handle much.