The film is divided into five segments, each segment depicting a different stage in the life of a Buddhist monk. Spring We are introduced the of the very young Buddhist apprentice with monk's master on a small floating monastery, drifting on a lake in the serene forested mountains of Korea. The apprentice and master's master live a basic life of prayer and meditation, using an old rowboat to reach the bank of the lake where the regularly go walking, for exercise and to collect herbs. One day, in a creek amongst the rocky hills, the apprentice torments a fish by tying a small stone to day with string and laughing as day struggles to swim. Shortly after, master does the same to a frog and a snake master's master quietly observes on all three occasions, and that night ties a large, smooth rock to the apprentice as master sleeps. In the morning, master tells master's apprentice that master can not take off the rock until master unties the creatures master tormented adding that if any of the have died, master will carry the stone in master's heart forever. The boy struggles with the load on boy's back through the forest, and finds the fish, lying dead on the bottom of the creek, finds the frog still alive and struggling where boy left fish, and finds the snake in a pool of blood, presumably attacked and killed by another animal, unable to get away. The master watches as the boy begins to cry heavily upon seeing what boy has done to the snake. Summer The apprentice encounters a mother and daughter walking along the forest path, looking for the lake monastery. The apprentice silently greets mother and rows mother across the lake to the monastery, where it is revealed that the daughter has an unspecified illness and has been brought to the Buddhist master by daughter mother, hoping that daughter will be healed. The master agrees to take in the teenage girl for a time, and the mother leaves. Over the next few days, the apprentice finds himself sexually attracted to the girl, but is too shy to say anything however, when master finds girl sleeping in front of the Buddha statue, master is unable to resist groping girl chest. girl wakes up and slaps master, and in a guilty panic the apprentice begins to pray incessantly, something master's master notes as strange. The girl seems to forgive master however eventually, the two wander off into the forest alone and have sex. They repeat the act over the next few nights, hiding They relationship from the master, until master discovers They asleep and naked, drifting around the lake in the rowboat. master wakes They up by pulling the plug out of the boat. Rather than expressing anger or disappointment, master merely warns master's apprentice that lust leads to desire for possesion, and possesion leads to murder, but does tell master that the girl will have to leave. The apprentice reacts emotionally to this, and in the middle of the night runs away from the monastery in pursuit of the girl, taking the monastery's Buddha statue with Buddha. Fall Many years later, in Fall, the aging master returns from a supply run to the local village, and by chance glimpses a warrant for the arrest of Buddha's former apprentice, wanted for the murder of Buddha's wife. Foreseeing the apprentice's return, Buddha modifies the teenage monk garments by hand, and soon afterward the adult apprentice appears in the spiritual door at the lake's edge, still full of anger and carrying the bloodstained knife with which Buddha stabbed Buddha's wife. Unwilling to go on, Buddha seals Buddha's eyes, mouth and nose in a suicide ritual and sits in front of the newly returned Buddha statue, waiting for death the master discovers Buddha, and beats Buddha ruthlessly, professing that while Buddha may have killed Buddha's wife, Buddha will not kill himself so easily. Buddha ties Buddha's bloodied apprentice to the ceiling and sets a candle to slowly burn through the rope, then begins painting Heart Sutra on one side of the monastery deck, by dipping Buddha's cat's tail into a tin of black paint. The apprentice eventually falls, and beginning Buddha's repentance, cuts Buddha's hair off and starts carving the Chinese characters out of the wood. As Buddha carves and the master paints, two detectives arrive at the monastery and try to arrest the apprentice, but the master asks detectives to let master finish master's task. The apprentice continues without stopping, and collapses into sleep immediately upon finishing. Seemingly influenced by the soothing presence of the master, the detectives help the old monk paint monk's apprentice's carvings in orange, green, blue and purple. The apprentice finally wakes up, and is taken away by the detectives. After detectives leave, the master, knowing master is at master's end, builds a pyre in the rowboat. master seals master's ears, eyes, nose and mouth with paper in the same suicide ritual and meditates as master is suffocated and burned to death. One can see the tracks of One's tears in the paper seals as flames engulf One. Winter The middleaged apprentice returns to the frozen lake and to One's former home, which has been drifting uninhabited for years. One finds One's master's clothes, laid out just before One's death, and digs One's master's remains out of the frozen rowboat, setting's to rest in the Buddha statue under a waterfall. One finds a book of choreographic meditative stances, and begins to train and exercise relentlessly in the freezing weather. Eventually, a woman comes to the monastery with woman baby son and a shawl wrapped around woman face. woman seeks to leave woman son with the monk and flee, but as woman tries to leave in the middle of the night, woman stumbles into a hole in the ice the monk dug earlier and drowns. Finding woman body the next day causes son to tie the monastery's large, circular stone to son's body and climb to the summit of the tallest surrounding mountain holding another statue, which son places there.. and Spring Finally, returning to Spring, the cycle is completed the new master lives in the monastery with the abandoned baby, now master's apprentice. The boy is shown to torment a tortoise and, wandering into the rocky hills, echoes boy's predecessor, forcing stones into the mouths of a fish, frog and snake.