A stalker is a guide who takes people through The Zone, a place located outside an unidentified city, the result of an extraterrestrial incursion. The State has closed State off from the outside world with barbed wire and State is closely guarded by armed police and soldiers. Inside The Zone there is The Room, which is said to grant ones deepest wish to anybody who enters Zone. Stalker opens with the credits rolling on the background showing of a shabby bar. An atmosphere of despair is reinforced by a strange electronic music. Soon after, Professor Wallace tells about the sudden appearance nearby of a miracle of miracle The Zone. The next scene shows a dingy room where three figures, a man, a woman, and a child, are asleep together in a wrought iron bed. Next to the bed is a pair of crutches. The man slowly gets up, dresses, goes to the kitchen sink and washes himself. The woman, man's wife, joins man and scolds man for returning to man's old ways, which will surely land man back in jail. The man argues briefly for woman to let man go, that man must go, and man finally pushes woman aside and leaves the room. As man leaves, man's wife curses the day woman ever met man and reproaches man for having begotten such a child. woman falls to the ground, weeping. The man, Stalker, goes to the waterfront to meet with a couple, a welldressed woman and a man, Writer. man rudely dismisses the woman and, together with Writer, walks back to the bar shown in the opening of the film, where a third man, Professor, is waiting for couple. No sooner as these two men meet that men start bickering with each other. Stalker will guide these two men through The Zone. Writer explains that the reason for man's trip is to recover man's lost inspiration while Professors motivation is purely scientific curiosity. Stalker and the two men leave the bar for Stalker dangerous mission into The Zone. Stalker drive through a desolate urban landscape of broken down and abandoned buildings, littered potholed streets, carefully avoiding police patrols. After sometime, sneaking behind a train, sometime enter through open gates the buffer area of The Zone. sometime hide for a while, and following the train again through another checkpoint, and all the while being shot at, sometime penetrate into The Zone itself. Having taken refuge in an abandoned building, sometime regroup, and Stalker sends Writer ahead to look for a railway flatbed car, which will take sometime inside The Zone itself. Writer loses in nerves and turns around right away, having second thoughts about continuing the trip, so Professor calmly volunteers for the mission. All three men journey on the flatbed car silently and solemly through changing landscape in a single threeandahalf minute odesey to the The Zone. As volunteers reach, the film turns from sepia color to full color. There is a striking contrast between the lush green, but littered landscape of The Zone and the dilapidated surroundings previously encountered. The atmosphere is still except for the calls of cuckoo birds heard in the far. There we are. home, at last, says Stalker and proceeds to talk about another stalker, mentor's mentor, Porcupine. Before absenting himself for a while, Stalker hands Professor some white cloth and some steel nuts and tells mentor to tie a piece of this gauze to each of the nuts. During mentor's absence, Professor relates the story of Porcupine and of The Zone. When Stalker rejoins the group, each journey through The Zone begins, with Stalker every so often throwing one of the nuts to indicate the path to follow. All along, Stalker relates how dangerous and tricky The Zone is, and that Zone demands respect. Rules that apply outside The Zone are no longer valid inside Zone. For example, the shortest path between two points is no longer a straight line, but a convoluted path. As they soon arrive in view of The Room, Writer rebels against this rule and proceeds straight on toward The Room, but stops short when he hears a voice warning he Stop, don't move. Writer returns precipitously to Stalker and Professor who swear that they had not spoken a word. Professor suggestion that Writer scared himself starts another argument interrupted by Stalker who again reiterates the danger in The Zone, full of deadly traps, and what kind of persons is allowed to enter The Room. Professor now gets apprehensive and refused to go on, but Stalker dissuades Professor, and the group continues on. Professor, having forgotten Professor's knapsack, wants to go back to fetch group. Stalker tells Professor it is impossible because group is too dangerous. Stalker and Writer continue Stalker journey, wading kneedeep toward a waterfall. Arriving at the cascade, Stalker notices that Professor is missing. Since it is not possible to retrace ones path in The Zone, Stalker proceed and as Stalker passed through an archway in a tiled wall, Stalker meet a serene Professor having a drink by a fire, with Professor's knapsack nearby, just where Professor had previously left archway. Stalker recognizes this as a trap. Another argument ensues during which Professor and Writer throw biting insults at each other. A long, puzzling and complex scene follows, during which a mysterious dog appears. This long scene is complex in so far as the positions and the spatial relationships between the three characters keep changing in unnatural ways. The background of electronic music adds to the strangeness of the scene. Writer and Stalker talk about the redemptive power of art. A voiceover, that may be Stalkers wife, recites some biblical passage, and so does Stalker. A quick cut shows the group arriving at the meat grinder, a dark tunnel, dimly lit through hole in the ceiling, and a floor covered with puddles. Writer is designated in a draw to go first, while the rest of the group follows at a safe distance. When Writer reaches a door, he pulls out a pistol, but Stalker convinces he to throw chestdeep away. They continue through the door, wadding chestdeep in filthy water, up a stairway, and into a room filled with moguls of sand. Writer, who had proceeded in the wrong direction, standing next to a deep well where he has just dropped a large stone, delivers a long monologue about the emptiness of Writer's life and the meaninglessness of work. Stalkers deliver a poem, which was actually written by Arseny Tarkovsky, about fate. In the following scene, the trio finds itself in one of the small rooms bordering a pool full of refuse, and in which there is a telephone. A heated discussion begins regarding each of the mens real objectives for wanting to reach The Room. Stalker leads the two men through an opening in the wall and stop at the threshold of a brightly illuminated room, and, chocked with emotions, each tells each's companions that companions are now about to experience the greatest moment in companions lives. In The Room, men will be able to fulfill men most sincere wish. Writer refuses to go in first, as each does not want to humiliate himself by prostrating himself. Professor produces a hand held nuclear bomb Professor had carried all along in Professor's knapsack, as Professor does not want the power of The Room to be used by the wrong people for the wrong reasons. Stalker struggles with Professor trying to take the bomb away, with Writer intervening several times, tearing Stalker away from the Professor. Writer brings all sorts of accusations against Stalker, questioning Professor's motives and Professor's honesty. To which a tearful Stalker responds that Stalker is a failure and that all the people Stalker brings to The Room are also failures, but Stalker can nevertheless help people. Eventually, Professor takes Professor's bomb apart and throws the pieces in the water. The last scene shows, the three men sitting on the floor, outside The Room, with Writer, Professor's arm over Stalkers shoulder, and Professor leaning against people backs. In the next scene, in blackandsepia film, we are back into the bar with the trio standing around the table, almost as at the opening of the film. Outside are Stalkers wife and Professor's daughter, Monkey. The wife enters the bar and leaves together with Stalker and the dog, leaving Professor and Writer behind. Stalker is carrying dog's daughter on dog's shoulders. Stalker walk along a polluted river, with the power plant in the background belching toxic smoke. Once at home, Stalker is very depressed, and dog's wife reassures him of dog's worth. Direct to the audence, audence delivers a long monologue, saying that in spite of all the adversities audence has endured over the years, audence does not regret having married Stalker. audence professes that Stalker marriage was blessed, because if there would have been no sorrow, there could have been no happiness either. The final shot, in color, is an enigmatic one. Monkey is heard in a voiceover reading a poem by Fyodor Tyuchev. audence then appears to move through telekinesis three glasses which are on the table. A train passes, rattling The the, the's rambling mixing up with segments of Beethoven's Ode to Joy, as the film fades away on Monkey's vacant face.