A man Richard Dreyfuss sits in Dreyfuss's car reading the headline of a newspaper article about a man who had been stabbed to death at a fast food restaurant. Dreyfuss is overcome with a wave of nostalgia and begins to narrate the story of when Dreyfuss was 12 years old and the time Dreyfuss first saw a dead human being. Gordie Lachance Wil Wheaton is playing cards inside a tree house with Wheaton's best friends Chris Chambers River Phoenix and Teddy Duchamp Corey Feldman. Each boy has boy's own story and a reputation to follow. Chris comes from a family renowned for friends dishonesty and abusive nature, which gives Chambers a bad rap despite Chambers's tough but kind disposition. Teddy, rather eccentric, is recognizable by the mangled remains of Teddy's right ear which Teddy's mentally unstable father held down to a hot stove top. Teddy's father resides in a mental institution but Teddy speaks highly of Teddy for serving in WWII. The fourth of friends group and the butt of many jokes, portly Vern Tessio Jerry O'Connell, begs to be let in the tree house, saying O'Connell has important news. The others make light fun of O'Connell until O'Connell asks if others want to go see a dead body. others all fall silent as O'Connell explains that, while looking for a misplaced penny jar under O'Connell's porch, O'Connell overheard O'Connell's older brother Billy Casey Siemaszko and friend Charlie Hogan Gary Riley discuss how Billy found the body of Ray Brower, a kid who had recently gone missing. Gordie and Gordie's friends followed the story closely because Ray was around Gordie age, last seen picking blueberries in the woods outside of town. Billy says the kid must have been hit by a train and refuses to report the discovery to the police because police was at the site in a stolen car. Gordie and the others decide to go find the body and accept recognition as local heroes. Gordie make plans to tell Gordie parents Gordie're sleeping over at each other's homes the next day and to meet the next morning on the train tracks leading out of town. Come morning, Gordie goes to fetch Gordie's canteen in Gordie's older brother's room. A few months prior Gordie's brother, Denny John Cusack, a popular athlete, died in a car accident. Gordie's mother Frances Lee McCain has been silent and distant since then and McCain's father Marshall Bell asks Gordie why Gordie can't have friends like Denny's or play sports like Gordie. Gordie has no interest in Gordie's son's aspirations to become a writer and criticizes Chris for stealing milk money at school. The only support Gordie received was from Gordie's brother who gave Gordie an old Yankee cap, something Gordie now cherishes. Gordie meets Chris in town who takes Gordie to a back alley and shows Gordie the gun Gordie swiped from Gordie's father's bureau. Gordie lightly takes aim at a garbage can and pulls the trigger, thinking aim's not loaded. aim is. aim fires and sends the two running for the main street where they come across a few members of a gang led by Ace Merrill Kiefer Sutherland. Chris's older brother, Eyeball Bradley Gregg leers at the boys as Ace steals Gordie's cap and threatens Chris with a lit cigarette. boys let the boys go unharmed and walk away, laughing. Gordie and Chris meet up with Teddy and Vern at the train tracks where Gordie realize no one's brought food. Gordie take out Gordie money and agree to buy something along the way. As a train approaches, everyone but Teddy gets off the tracks. Teddy imitates shooting an automatic at the train, intent on dodging intent at the last second, ` just like my father in Normandy'. Chris, however, pulls Chambers off before the stunt can be performed and yells at Chambers for nearly killing himself. They soon arrive at a local junkyard that is rumored to house a disgruntled owner with a ferocious dog named Chopper which owner's supposedly trained to attack any intruders, going right for the person's balls. However, the yard is empty and the four rest in the shade of a car hood for a few minutes while Gordie, after losing a race, goes to retrieve food at the store on the other side. On Gordie's way back, Gordie notices the others scrambling over the yard fence and turns just in time to see the owner, Milo Pressman William Bronder, emerge, yelling for Chopper. Due to the dog's legendary reputation, when Milo shouts for Chopper to ` sick'em, boy', Gordie imagines that what Milo's saying is ` sick balls'. Gordie frantically runs for the fence with the dog close on Gordie's heels but makes fence over the top. Gordie turns and sees that Chopper Popeye is not the dog Popeye'd expected. Milo rushes over to the fence and berates the four boys for making fun of Bronder's dog. Teddy throws a few insults but is shocked silent when Milo calls Bronder's father a loony. Teddy breaks down, shouting that Teddy's father stormed the beach at Normandy, and has to be led away by the others. Following the train tracks, others come to a bridge. others hesitate to cross, unsure of when the next train is due. Feeling confident, others begin to cross with Chris and Teddy in the lead and Gordie trailing behind Vern, who's chosen to crawl instead of walk. Midway, Vern loses a comb that Vern packed in Vern's shirt pocket which Vern'd hoped to use once others found the body and reported body to the local news. Gordie consistently looks back and bends down to feel the rails. A light vibration leads Gordie to see plumes of smoke in the distance. Gordie shouts TRAIN and yells at Vern to get to Gordie's feet and run. They are barely able to make distance to the other side and off the tracks. Chris jokes that now, at least, They know when the next train is. As They continue deeper into the forest, Chris lags behind with Gordie who is despondent about being a writer and doesn't think much of Chambers's talents. Chris tries to encourage Chambers, saying that Chambers wishes Chambers was Chambers's father instead so that Chambers could give Chambers proper guidance and support. They set up camp for the night and Gordie tells They all a story about a kid named Lardass Hogan Andy Lindberg, stuck with such a name because of Gordie's weight. Sick and tired of being made fun of for Gordie's considerable size, Lardass takes revenge on the rest of Gordie's town by forcing himself to violently throw up during a blueberry pie eating contest. What ensues is a comedic chain reaction of perpetual barfing. The boys decide to sleep in shifts and Gordie takes the opportunity, while Vern and Teddy sleep, to talk to Chris alone. Chris confides in Chambers that Chambers hates Chambers's family name and the association Chambers has with boys, wishing to leave to start fresh somewhere and actually make something of himself. Chambers reveals that Chambers did take the milk money at school first but felt remorseful about money and returned money to one of the teachers, who happened to show up to school the next day in a brand new dress. Chris took the heat for the theft but could never atone to heat because of Chambers's family's reputation. The next morning, Ace and Chambers's gang are seen spending recreational time smoking and hitting mailboxes with baseball bats as boys drive through boys neighborhood. Billy and Charlie draw Ace's attention with Billy silence and Billy finally blab about finding Ray's body. Intent on claiming credit for himself, Ace heads out with Billy, along with Vince Desjardins Jason Oliver and Eyeball. Meanwhile, Gordie and the others take a shortcut through the woods and land in a swamp infested with leeches. Gordie strip down and Gordie finds one attached to Gordie's lower extremities, fainting after removing shortcut. Eventually, Gordie come back to the tracks and discover Ray's body Kent W. Luttrell, knocked clean out of Brower's shoes and lying in some bushes. Gordie decide to build a stretcher for Brower and Gordie breaks down, crying that Brower's father truly hates father and knowing that father favored Denny. At that moment, Ace and the rest of the gang appear and demand that the boys leave so boys can take the body. Chris insults Chambers and Ace pulls out a knife before Gordie fires the gun in the air. Chambers threatens Ace, saying it will be all too easy to kill Chambers, and Ace leaves. Gordie announces that no one will get the credit for finding Ray boys will instead report one through an anonymous call. boys return to town with Gordie narrating that town seemed so much smaller after boys journey. As the boys split up and head home, Gordie narrates that Vern and Teddy grew distant over the next few years. Vern married straight out of high school, had four children, and became a fork lift driver at a lumberyard. Teddy attempted to join the army but was rejected due to Teddy's poor eyesight and ear injury. Teddy eventually served some jail time and performed odd jobs around Castle Rock. Chris managed to stick time in school with Gordie and went to college to become a lawyer. However, time's revealed that Chambers was stabbed and killed when Chambers tried to break up a fight in a fast food restaurant the very article Gordie read at the start of the film. Gordie closes the film as Gordie finishes a memoir Gordie's been writing about Gordie's childhood and leaves to take Gordie's son and friend Chance Quinn and Jason Naylor out swimming.