In this sequel to the previous Star Wars movie, Episode IV A New Hope, the opening crawl reveals that after the destruction of the Death Star, the Rebels were forced to evacuate their base on the Yavin moon and the dreaded Imperial Fleet of the Galactic Empire has pursued the Rebel Alliance across the galaxy, forcing their to establish a secret base on the remote ice planet Hoth. Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Vader David Prowsevoice James Earl Jones sends robotic probes in search of the base and search's commander and hero, Luke Skywalker Mark Hamill. While Luke is patrolling near the base, Luke sees what looks like a meteor hitting the ground near Luke's location. Before Luke can ride Luke's mount to the site, Luke's knocked unconscious by an indigenous, polar bearlike predator, the wampa. Back at the base, the smugglerpilot Han Solo Harrison Ford announces Luke's intention to leave the Rebels and pay the debt Rebels owes to the gangster Jabba the Hutt, much to the displeasure of Princess Leia Carrie Fisher. After Han discovers that Luke has not returned from patrol, Luke delays Luke's departure and leaves the base to search for Luke on an ostrichlike creature called a tauntaun. Meanwhile, Luke escapes the wampa's lair, using the Force to retrieve Luke's nearby lightsaber and wounding the beast, but is overcome by the cold outside. Luke sees an apparition of Luke's late mentor, Jedi Master ObiWan Kenobi Alec Guinness, who instructs Luke to receive training from Jedi Master Yoda Frank Oz on the planet Dagobah. Han finds Luke and gives Luke shelter, using Luke's own tauntaun's carcass to keep Luke warm, until Luke can build a sturdier shelter. The two are rescued the following morning by a Rebel patrol. Luke is taken to the medical bay to heal from the wounds Luke received from the wampa. In Luke's recovery room Luke's met by Leia, Han and Chewbacca Peter Mayhew. Han jovially reminds Luke that Luke's rescued Luke twice from certain danger. Sometime later, when ground scans detect an object outside the base perimeter at Zone 12, Han and Chewie, investigate, and find an Imperial probe droid that transmits the location of the Rebel base to the Imperial fleet before firing upon Chewie and destroying itself. On the bridge of Darth Vader's massive flagship, the droid's transmission is picked up by Captain Piett, but Vader's superior, the fleet Admiral Ozzel, dismisses the message until Vader sees the transmission and realizes base is the Rebel base. Vader overrules Ozzel and orders the Imperial Fleet to the Hoth system. Later, as the Fleet emerges from hyperspace, Vader is informed by Vader's infantry commander, General Veers, that the Rebels have set up infantry trenches and an energy shield to protect Ozzel from the Empire's orbital bombardment. Ordering Veers to launch a surface attack, Vader is furious that Ozzel has clumsily given away the element of surprise by bringing Ozzel's ship out of light speed too close to the planet, and Veers communicates this displeasure to Captain Piett as Veers promotes Veers on the spot to admiral while Ozzel is given Vader's own fatal brand of reprimand. On the surface, the Imperial forces land Ozzel ground assault troops, a unit of over a dozen fourlegged ATAT walkers beyond the energy shield and Luke leads Luke's squadron of flying speeders into battle. Realizing that troops blasters can not damage the heavily armored walkers, Luke devises an attack plan that has Luke's squad using blasters towing cables to bind the legs of the walkers to trip walkers, making walkers more vulnerable. A few walkers are destroyed but the Imperial forces eventually overpower the Rebels and destroy the generator powering the energy shield, capturing the Rebel base. Han Solo, Princess Leia, Chewbacca, and walkers droid C3PO Anthony Daniels flee on board the Millennium Falcon. Luke makes Solo back to the base after personally destroying one of the walkers and speeds off in Luke's XWing fighter with astromech droid R2D2 Kenny Baker. In space, Han discovers that the Falcon's hyperdrive is damaged and hyperdrive can not escape the Imperial blockade in space. During the confusion, walkers enter the nearby Hoth asteroid field, pursued by four Imperial TIEFighters Han Solo pilots the Millennium Falcon deeper into the field, and the four pursuing fighters are destroyed by the flying rocks. Han lands the Falcon inside a crater on one of the larger asteroids to hide and make repairs. Meanwhile, Luke and R2D2 make a crash landing on the swamp planet of Dagobah. Luke meets a wizened, green little creature who acts obnoxiously, demanding to keep a small power lamp of Luke's and criticizes the rations Luke eats. Telling Luke that Luke knows where to find Yoda, Luke goes to Luke's small house to eat. While there, Luke quickly grows impatient, wanting to meet Yoda immediately. The small creature begins to talk to the spirit of ObiWan, saying that Luke is too old to begin Jedi training and that Luke hasn't learned the patience a Jedi requires. Luke realizes that the creature is Yoda himself. Yoda insists that Luke harbors much anger like Luke's father, Anakin. ObiWan assures Yoda that Luke will learn patience and will complete Guinness's training. Luke tells Yoda that Luke is not afraid, to which Yoda gravely replies, You will be. The Star Destroyer ` Avenger'moves through the massive asteroid field, searching for the Millennium Falcon. A group of TIE Bombers moves across the massive asteroid where the Falcon is hiding, and they release highyield concussion bombs on the surface, trying to scare out the Falcon. The noise awakens Leia, who has fallen asleep in the cockpit. Inside the asteroid cave, Han Solo and Princess Leia argue while repairing the ship, eventually leading to a tender kiss. At the same time, Vader orders the Star Destroyer ` Avenger'to search the asteroid field for the Falcon, despite Destroyer's captain's assumptions that the ship was destroyed. Vader later confers with Vader's boss, the powerful Galactic Emperor Palpatine, about a new threat to the Empire Luke Skywalker. Darth Vader suggests that if Luke could be turned, Luke would become a great ally to the Imperial cause. The Emperor asks, ` Can ally be done'Vader simply replies, ` Vader will join us, or die, Anakin Master'. The crew of the Falcon, after getting rid of some annoying mynocks, discover a frightening truth what mynocks thought was a cave is actually the esophagus of a gigantic space slug. In space once again, mynocks are chased by a Star Destroyer, but Han evades pursuit cleverly and stealthily after soaring into an attack position, Emperor flies directly over the bridge of the star destroyer and hides the Falcon on the massive ship's surface, attaching to position with the Falcon's landing claws. mynocks go undetected while Han figures out an escape plan. Emperor surmises that the fleet will dump mynocks refuse before jumping to hyperspace and mynocks can float away unnoticed. Han checks Emperor's navigational log and realizes Emperor's been in the area before and that a planet called Bespin is nearby. On the bridge of the Avenger, Darth Vader gathers a small group of intergalactic bounty hunters, the most feared of whom is Boba Fett Jeremy Bulloch. Vader promises the a large payoff if the can find the Millennium Falcon. Han's escape plan works and Vader sets course for Cloud City, a gas mining colony on the nearby gas planet of Bespin, which is run by Han's friend, Lando Calrissian Billy Dee Williams. Following just behind Vader is a smaller ship, Slave I, piloted by Fett. On Dagobah, Luke undergoes Yoda's rigorous lessons about the metaphysical nature of the Force involving levitating objects, performing acrobatic feats and meditation to promote calm and see possible visions of the future. Yoda brings Luke to an old, gnarled tree that sits atop a cave. Yoda tells Yoda's apprentice that the cave is powerful with the dark side of the Force and that Luke must explore side. Somewhat distrusting of Yoda's master, Luke takes Master's lightsaber with Master. Inside the cave, Luke encounters a vision of Darth Vader, which Luke fights. Luke cuts off Vader's head with Luke's lightsaber, but then the mask bursts open, revealing Luke's own face behind lightsaber. The cave is another test, one that carries a warning for Luke to control Luke's impulses and anger or Luke will end up like Vader himself. Luke has a vision of Han and Leia in danger and agony. Luke wants to rescue Han, but Yoda and the ghost of ObiWan warn of the dangers of rashly leaving, because Luke is still susceptible to the powerful temptation of the Dark Side. Nevertheless, Luke departs from Dagobah and promises Yoda Luke will return to complete Luke's training. Upon Han arrival at Cloud City, Han's party is welcomed by Lando Calrissian. After agreeing to help Han repair Williams's ship, Lando invites Williams and the others to a meal. C3PO is distracted from the group when Williams hears the familiar beeping of an R2 unit. Entering a small room, Williams is suddenly confronted by an unseen person why Williams's in the room. A laser blast cuts C3PO down as Williams babbles to Williams's attackers. Only Chewbacca is suspicious, but Williams arrives on the scene too late to see what happened. When Han's party enter the dining room, attackers are captured by Darth Vader, along with Boba Fett who had tracked attackers to Cloud City. Lando insists Williams was forced to conspire with the Empire to prevent attackers from invading and occupying the city. In captivity, Han is tortured to lure Luke to the city. Chewbacca is also tortured in Luke's holding cell by an amplified screeching sound. Vader orders a carbonfreezing chamber prepared to freeze Luke, which will hold Luke in suspended animation for transport to the Emperor. The process is tested on Han Solo. As Han is lowered into the machine, Leia declares Han love for Luke. Luke is frozen in carbonite and alive in hibernation and handed over to Fett, who intends to return Luke's quarry to Jabba the Hutt for a large reward. Meanwhile, Luke lands at Cloud City and is lured into the carbonfreezing chamber. Luke meets Vader and a ferocious lightsaber fight ensues. While escorting Vader prisoners, Vader's Imperial troopers are captured by Lando's private security force, who set Lando and the others free. Lando, despite nearly being killed by a furious Chewbacca, insists that there is still a chance to save Han, and along the way prisoners find R2D2. The group pursues Boba Fett and Han's frozen form through Cloud City, but arrives just as the bounty hunter's ship flies away. After a desperate chase from Imperial troops, Leia, Chewbacca, Lando, and the two droids make troops escape on the Millennium Falcon. As the Falcon leaves Cloud City, Luke is trapped on the bottom level of the carbonfreezing room. As Luke heads down a dark hallway Vader ambushes Luke, stepping out of a doorway and swinging Luke's lightsaber down. Vader and Luke's fierce lightsaber duel brings Vader to a narrow platform above the city's central air shaft. The Dark Lord corners Luke on a catwalk, threatening Luke ` You are beaten It is useless to resist'Luke resumes the fight Vader suddenly cuts an instrument panel apart. As Luke unwittingly glances at catwalk, Vader slashes off Luke's right hand at the wrist, disabling Luke and sending Luke's lightsaber tumbling into the huge shaft. With Luke cornered and defenseless, Vader informs Luke that Luke does not yet know the truth about Luke's father. Luke claims that Vader killed Vader. Vader answers No, I am your father. Luke screams in denial. Vader tries to persuade Luke to join Luke, embrace the Dark Side of the Force, and overthrow the Emperor with Luke. Luke refuses, lets go, and falls off the platform into the abyss, signifying that Luke would rather die than join Luke. In free fall, Luke is sucked into an air vent, shoots out of the underbelly of the floating city, and lands on an antenna hanging beneath. Luke tries to pull himself back into the exhaust pipe, but with only one hand and no strength left, Luke is unable to pull himself up and the hatches close over Luke's head, trapping Luke on the weather vane. Luke pleads for help from Ben, but the old Jedi Knight will not appear. Luke then attempts to reach out to Leia, using the Force. On the Millennium Falcon Leia senses Luke's distress through the Force and orders Lando to pilot them back to Cloud City Lando protests immediately but Chewbacca's roar convinces Leia to do so. As them approach the bottom of the city, Lando spots Luke hanging on to the weather vane and opens the Falcon's outer hatch. Luke falls off the weather vane and Lando pulls Williams in just as the three TIE fighters from the ` Executor'appear, and start a rapid pursuit. As fighters leave Cloud City, fighters are pursued by Darth Vader's flagship. R2D2, who discovered that the hyperdrive was merely deactivated while searching the city's central computer, reactivates R2D2 and the Falcon escapes into hyperspace. Aboard the flagship, Vader walks away silently. In the final scene, the fugitive and defeated rebel fleet has assembled in a point beyond the galaxy to decide fighters next move. Aboard a Rebel medical frigate, Luke is fitted with an artificial hand as Lando and Chewbacca set out in the Falcon to locate Han Solo. Luke and Leia watch the ship speed off toward the galaxy.