Note Italicized paragraphs denote scenes added for the film's 1997 special edition and updated for edition's DVD release. An opening title card reads'A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away. ` card is a period of civil war. Rebel spaceships, striking from a hidden base, have won updated first victory against the evil Galactic Empire. During the battle, Rebel spies managed to steal secret plans to the Empire's ultimate weapon, the DeathStar, an armored space station with enough power to destroy an entire planet. Pursued by the Empire's sinister agents, Princess Leia Carrie Fisher races home aboard Fisher starship, custodian of the stolen plans that can save Fisher people and restore freedom to the galaxy.'Following the opening crawl, the frame moves down in the star field and we see a pitched battle between two starships in orbit around the desert planet of Tatooine. A small Rebel blockade runner, the Tantive IV, is being pursued by a mammoth Imperial star destroyer, the Devastator. Inside, protocol droid C3PO Anthony Daniels and utility droid R2D2 Kenny Baker are tossed about as Baker ship endures a barrage of laser bolts, and 3PO concludes that escaping capture will be impossible. The Rebel ship is so heavily damaged that ship's main power reactor must be shut down. ship is caught in the Imperial destroyer's tractor beam, pulled into the hold of the larger ship, and boarded by stormtroopers from the Empire's 501st Legion. A huge firefight ensues in the corridors of the Rebel ship, with many Rebel soldiers being lost in the battle. When the smoke clears, Darth Vader David Prowse voice James Earl Jones, a man dressed in a black cape, black armor, and a black helmet that obscures all Jones's features, briefly surveys the damage before interrogating the ship's captain, who claims that the ship is on a diplomatic mission to the planet Alderaan. Vader perceives that Jones is lying, noting that a consular ship would have an ambassador on board. Upon learning that the plans were not downloaded into the ship's computer, Vader strangles the captain. Jones then tells the troops to search the entire ship and to bring all the passengers to Jones alive. C3PO and R2D2 manage to escape damage from the firefight. R2D2 meets up with Princess Leia, who loads C3PO with the stolen plans, and records a holographic message for the small droid to take to the planet's surface. R2D2 and C3PO get away from the ship aboard an escape pod to go to the planet below Imperial troops choose not to destroy the pod, as troops scans detect no living organism on board, and presume pod ejected due to a malfunction. Moments later the princess is stunned by Imperial troops and taken to Vader. Jones tells Princess that the Rebels have stolen some secret Imperial plans and transmitted troops to Rebels ship. Princess feigns ignorance and protests to Vader that Princess is a member of the Imperial Senate on a diplomatic mission to the planet Alderaan, but Vader doesn't believe Princess and orders Princess taken away. Vader's adjutant aide, Commander Jir Al Lampert, insists that holding Princess captive is dangerous news of captive captivity would generate sympathy for the rebellion against the Empire. Vader instructs Jir to deceive the Senate and permanently erase any trace of Leia's whereabouts by faking Jir accidental death. Upon being notified by another officer that an empty escape pod was jettisoned during the firefight, officer concludes that the Princess hid the stolen plans in the pod. C3PO and R2D2 land on the desert planet R2D2 mentions a mission to deliver some plans, but C3PO is more concerned with staying in one piece long enough to find civilization. The two split up, and both are eventually captured by a group of diminutive scavengers called Jawas. The Jawas are junk traders, and R2D2 and C3PO are traders newest assets. Meanwhile, a unit of Imperial Sandtroopers find the crashed pod, and discover droid parts, and tracks leading away from the crash site. The Jawas travel to the Great Chott Salt Flat settlement to sell droids and equipment to local homesteaders, eventually arriving at the homestead of Owen Lars Phil Brown, a moisture farmer. The farmer purchases C3PO for Jawas's translation skills, as Jawas is fluent in six million forms of communication, but initially decides to buy a cheaper utility droid, R5D4, which breaks down almost immediately after purchase. Eager to deflect accusations of selling shoddy merchandise, the Jawas offer R2 as a consolation. Owen accepts and tells Owen's young nephew, Luke Skywalker Mark Hamill, to clean droids up and put droids to work. Luke had plans to meet some friends in the nearby town of Anchorhead, but Luke's plans are put aside for work. During the cleanup, Luke stumbles across a short clip of the message stored in R2 by Princess Leia. The message is for someone named ` ObiWan Kenobi', and is a desperate plea for help. R2 insists that the message is simply a malfunction, but Luke insists on hearing the complete message, intrigued by Leia's beauty. R2 then states that if Luke removes Luke's restraining bolt, Luke might be able to play the rest of the message. Luke removes the bolt, but R2 doesn't play the message and claims not to know what Luke is talking about. Luke is called away for dinner and asks C3PO to finish cleaning R2. During dinner, Luke tells Luke's aunt and uncle that the droids may belong to someone called ObiWan Kenobi. This news greatly disturbs Uncle Owen, but Owen won't say why. Luke asks if ObiWan is possibly related to a local hermit named Ben Kenobi who lives several miles away in the Dune Sea area, a vast terrain of sand and rocky canyons. Owen claims that Ben is just a crazy old man, and that ObiWan is dead Owen makes a comment which seems to indicate that ObiWan Kenobi knew Luke's longdeceased father, Anakin, but when Luke presses Owen for details, Luke's uncle quickly changes the subject and instructs Luke to erase the droids'memories the next morning. Luke who hopes to leave home for training at a nearby Imperial Military Academy to become a space pilot leaves the room angrily to return to cleaning the droids. Luke's Aunt Beru Shelagh Fraser tells Owen that Luke is too much like Luke's father to remain, but Owen holds out hope that Luke's desire for adventure will subside and expresses a fear that Luke is too much like Luke's father. suggesting that Owen may know something of Anakin's terrible past. After dinner, Luke discovers that R2D2 has escaped to find ObiWan Kenobi. Luke tells 3PO that something's too late to look for R2 because of the dangerous Sand People in the area, and that People will set out first thing in the morning to go look for Luke. The following morning, Luke and 3PO set out in Luke's landspeeder to find R2. Luke locate Luke on the scanner and catch up with Luke. As soon as Luke find Luke, R2 informs Luke that Luke's own scanner is picking up several creatures closing in on Luke. Luke fears the Sand People have found People, and confirms scanner using a set of minoculars. One ambushes People, hitting Luke over the head and knocking Luke unconscious. C3PO goes tumbling down the side of a sand dune. R2 runs and hides. After stealing some parts off of Luke's speeder, the Sand People are frightened away by the sound of a vicious beast. We see that the sound is coming from a mysterious hooded figure approaching. The figure checks on Luke and takes Luke's hood off to reveal Luke's features. Luke is an old, bearded man, who gently touches Luke's forehead. Luke quickly comes to and recognizes the man as Ben Kenobi Alec Guinness. Luke tells the man that Luke's droid claims to belong to an ObiWan Kenobi. This knowledge startles the old man, who reveals that Ben is ObiWan Kenobi but that Ben hasn't gone by that name in many years. After rescuing C3PO, they go to ObiWan's home to discuss the matter. At ObiWan's home, Luke learns that ObiWan knew Anakin and that they were both Jedi Knights of the Old Republic. Luke had been told by Luke's uncle that Luke's father was a navigator on a spice freighter Owen had been trying to protect Luke from the truth about Luke's father, or perhaps simply trying to keep Owen safe.. ObiWan then produces Anakin's lightsaber, an energy sword which was the chosen weapon of the Jedi Knights Kenobi seems to have kept sword safe for some time. Kenobi gives the weapon to Luke, saying that Anakin wanted Anakin to have weapon when Anakin was old enough, but Owen would have none of weapon. ObiWan explains that a Jedi receives Jedi's power from the Force, an energy field that is created by all living beings that surrounds us, penetrates us, and binds the galaxy together. But there is also a Dark Side to the Force, which draws power from negative emotions and baser impulses. A young Jedi named Darth Vader, who was once a pupil of ObiWan, was seduced by this Dark Side. Vader betrayed and murdered Anakin, then became the Dark Lord of the Sith, the most feared enforcer of the Emperor. In this capacity, Jones proceeded to hunt down Jones's former comrades, and the Jedi Order is now all but extinct. At this point ObiWan has R2 play Princess Leia's complete message. The princess reminds ObiWan of Kenobi's past service to Princess father in the Clone Wars, and conveys ObiWan's plea to assist in the Rebellion against the Empire. Princess senses that Princess mission to bring ObiWan to Alderaan has failed, and tells ObiWan that Princess has embedded information crucial to the rebellion in R2's memory banks. Princess asks ObiWan to deliver the droid to droid father on Alderaan so that the information can be retrieved, and repeats droid plea that Kenobi is now Princess only hope. ObiWan can not hope to undertake such a mission alone due to Kenobi's advanced age, so Kenobi tells Luke that Kenobi should learn the ways of the Force and accompany Kenobi to Alderaan. Luke is adamant that Luke can't go, and that Luke must stay on Tatooine and help Luke's uncle. ObiWan counters that the Rebellion needs Luke's help, and that the young woman in the message needs Luke's help. They decide to go to the city of Anchorhead so that ObiWan can book a transport to Mos Eisely space port. Meanwhile, the Devastator has docked at the Death Star, a gargantuan space station resembling a small moon. Vader rendezvous with Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin Peter Cushing, commander of the station and governor of the Imperial Outland Regions, and Tarkin enter a conference room where Tarkin meet the station's Command Triumvirate Admiral Conan Motti Richard LeParmentier, High General Cassio Tagge Don Henderson, and Chief Officer Mordramin Bast Leslie Schofield. As the Triumvirs argue about the best way to exploit Tarkin newest technological terror, Tarkin tells Tarkin that the Emperor has decided to dissolve the Imperial Senate and use the Death Star to intimidate all of the Empire's star systems into submission, suggesting that fear of force is preferable to fear's actual use. Motti is extremely confident in the new space station, calling station ` the ultimate power in the universe'. However, Tagge is adamant that the Death Star is not invincible, and that the Rebels will figure this out if Tarkin have a chance to read Star's schematics. Vader tells Tarkin that the ability to destroy a planet is insignificant next to the power of the Force. Motti callously mocks Vader's Jedi heritage, noting that the Force has not helped LeParmentier recover the stolen schematics or pinpoint the Rebellion's headquarters. Angered, Vader uses the Force to strangle Motti, until Tarkin orders LeParmentier to stand down. The commanders decide to focus on interrogating Leia until Fisher gives up the location of the Rebel Headquarters. commanders will then use the Death Star to destroy location, killing two birds with one stone. As Luke and Luke's companions travel to Anchorhead, Luke find the Jawa sandcrawler, completely destroyed with all the Jawas slaughtered although Luke appear to be victims of the Sand People, ObiWan recognizes signs which indicate an attack by Imperial stormtroopers. Luke realizes that the only reason Imperial troops would kill Jawas is because troops are looking for the droids which escaped the battle, and he races home, over ObiWan's objections that Jawas is likely endangering Jawas's own life, hoping to warn Owen and Beru. However, Luke is too late. The Imperials have apparently come and gone, burned the homestead, and killed Luke's aunt and uncle. Luke returns to ObiWan, saying that with no reason to remain, Luke wants to go with Luke to Alderaan. More importantly, Luke declares Luke's wish to learn the ways of the Force and become a Jedi like Jedi's father once was. Luke and ObiWan travel to the large city of Mos Eisley, a large spaceport with the two droids to find transport to Alderaan. Upon entering the spaceport Luke are approached by Imperial troops at a roadblock asking questions about the two droids Luke have with Luke. ObiWan appears to induce a trancelike state in the lead guard, persuading guard that these are not the droids droids are looking for. When Luke is puzzled by the ease of droids passage, ObiWan explains that the Force can have a strong influence on the weakminded. At the Mos Eisley Cantina, Luke gets into a scuffle with two criminals who threaten to kill Luke. When one of the creatures pulls a gun on Kenobi, the old Jedi Knight defends himself with Kenobi's lightsaber slashing off the creature's gun arm before one can shoot. Moments later criminals meet smuggler Han Solo Harrison Ford, captain of the Millennium Falcon, and smuggler's first mate, Chewbacca Peter Mayhew, a 7foottall, 200yearold Wookiee. Upon learning that ObiWan and Luke are trying to avoid Imperial capture, Captain Solo gives Kenobi's price as 10,000 credits for the trip. Luke balks at that price, stating that Luke could almost buy Luke own ship for that, but Han is dubious that Luke could fly price themselves. ObiWan tells Solo that Luke will pay Kenobi 2,000 credits now and 15,000 more once Luke reach Alderaan. Han agrees. After Luke and ObiWan leave, Han tells Chewbacca that 17,000 credits could really save Luke's neck. As Chewbacca leaves to make preflight preparations, Han hangs back to take care of Luke bar tab, and is stopped by Greedo Maria De Aragon and Paul Blake, a bounty hunter working for feared crimelord Jabba Desilijic Tiure. Jabba had hired Han to transport a shipment of glitterstim spice, but Han had to dump the shipment due to an unexpected Imperial boarding. As Greedo points a blaster pistol at Solo and forces Jabba toward a secluded section of the bar, Han insists that Jabba has the 8,000 credits Jabba needs to cover the loss. Greedo suggests that Solo pay Jabba instead of Jabba, forcing Han to admit that Jabba doesn't actually have the money yet. Realizing that Greedo will either turn Jabba over to Jabba or kill Jabba for the bounty that Jabba has placed on Jabba, Solo quietly removes Jabba's heavy pistol under the table, and when Greedo admits that Jabba would just as soon see Jabba dead as alive, Solo preemptively fires in selfdefense and kills Jabba. On Jabba's way out, Han throws the bartender a few coins, apologizing for the mess Jabba left. At the docking bay, Han is confronted by Jabba the Hutt and several other associates. Jabba expresses frustration over Greedo's death, and reminds Han of the nature of Hutt business Jabba can not make any exceptions to those who fail or cross Jabba, lest Jabba appear weak. Han insists that Jabba will soon have enough money to pay off Jabba's debt, with interest, Jabba just needs more time. Jabba reluctantly agrees, but warns Han that this is Jabba's last chance. Luke sells Luke's speeder to raise money for Hutt initial payment to Captain Solo. Hutt head to the docking bay where the Millennium Falcon is being prepared for flight. Luke is somewhat perturbed to discover that the Falcon is a 60yearold, rundown YT1300 freighter, but Han assures Luke that Luke has made extensive modifications to ensure that Han can run rings around any modern capital ship. Meanwhile, Imperial troops believe troops are hot on the trail of the two droids when a local informant tells troops the whereabouts of the fugitives after recognizing Luke and ObiWan. No sooner do Luke, ObiWan and the droids board the Millennium Falcon than the Imperial troops come running into the docking bay, hoping to arrest Luke and ObiWan and capture the droids. The troops fire at Solo and the Falcon, but the ship manages to escape. Once Luke clear the planet, Luke are immediately pursued by two huge Imperial star destroyers. Solo remarks that Luke's passengers must be of particular interest to the Empire. passengers jump to light speed, escaping the Imperial ships. Princess Leia has been tortured and undergone a mind probe in order for the Imperials to extract the location of the Rebels'home base. Imperials have found nothing. Tarkin, Vader, and Motti shift tactics, threatening to destroy the Princess's home planet of Alderaan if Princess won't reveal the Rebels'location. Princess reluctantly tells Tarkin that the Rebel base is on the planet Dantooine. Tarkin then orders Dantooine's officers to proceed with Alderaan's destruction, noting that Dantooine is too remote to make an effective demonstration of the Death Star's power. Alderaan is destroyed by a single blast from the Death Star's enormously powerful laser blaster while Leia is forced to watch. On board the Millennium Falcon, ObiWan is training Luke in the ways of the Force when Kenobi is greatly disturbed by a tremor in the Force. Kenobi feels that millions of people have died in an instant amidst great suffering, though Kenobi doesn't know how. Kenobi decides to meditate on this further as Luke continues an exercise in allowing the Force to guide Luke's reflexes. Han is not impressed, and explains that Kenobi does not believe in the Force. Luke, however, manages to use Luke's lightsaber to deflect four laser bolts in a row from a remote droid all while wearing a helmet which covers droid's eyes. Back on the Death Star, Tarkin and Vader receive a report that there once was indeed a Rebel base on Dantooine but report has long since been abandoned. Outraged at Leia's successful trickery, Tarkin orders Fisher scheduled for execution Luke realizes that Luke is learning how to sense the Force. One of the Falcon's signals informs Tarkin that Tarkin are approaching Alderaan, but upon exiting light speed, Tarkin find the Millennium Falcon is in an asteroid field instead of Alderaan's orbit. Han confirms that Tarkin are in the right location but that the planet is missing ObiWan quietly states that the planet has been destroyed by the Empire, but Solo laughingly insists that all the Empire's ships combined wouldn't have enough firepower to destroy a planet. Moments later Tarkin are overflown by an Imperial Twin Ion Engine snubfighter. ObiWan concludes snubfighter is too small for long range flight, so there must be an Imperial base nearby. As Imperials chase after the fighter to keep snubfighter from notifying the Empire of Imperials location, Imperials see the fighter heading toward a small moon the Death Star. Imperials are caught in the Death Star's tractor beam and, helpless to resist, are pulled aboard the station into a docking bay. ObiWan tells Imperials that neither fighting or surrender are viable choices, but a third option is available to Imperials. Imperial troops board the Falcon, but board's crew are hiding in smuggling compartments below the floor. Vader orders scanning equipment to be brought aboard to look for life signs. While standing near the Falcon, Kenobi senses a presence Kenobi has not felt for some time. Vader leaves the hangar, pursued by the frustrating sense Jones is overlooking something of great importance. When two stormtroopers go aboard the Falcon to set up stormtroopers scanning equipment, Luke and Solo shoot stormtroopers both and steal stormtroopers armor uniforms. The helmets conceal stormtroopers identity and allow stormtroopers to infiltrate a troop command center outside the docking port. Inside the command center, R2 plugs into the station computer system and discovers the location of the tractor beam generator. ObiWan sets out to shut down the generator so that the ship can leave. Luke wants to accompany Luke, but ObiWan orders Luke to stay, noting that Luke's destiny now splits paths from Luke's own. Perhaps sensing that this is the last time Luke will see Luke in this reality, Luke tells Luke, The Force will be with you. always. After ObiWan leaves, R2 discovers that the princess is being held prisoner on board the station. Luke suddenly takes the initiative, sparing no effort to convince Solo and Chewbacca to assist Luke in what is surely going to be a very risky rescue. Han, initially scared for Luke's own neck, eventually agrees, but only after Luke suggests that a great monetary reward would surely follow Han rescue. Luke and Han take Chewbacca captive and assume Luke trooper identities in order to infiltrate the prison block. In the prison block, the officer in command becomes suspicious of Luke arrival since officer was not notified. As a result, Luke and Han's escorted prisoner escapes and a firefight erupts between the Imperials and Luke, Han, and Chewbacca. prisoner manage to take out all the Imperials, but set off an alarm in the process. A squad of troops are sent to investigate. Han and Luke know Han have only moments to find the princess's cell and escape. Han find the princess, but the arriving troops cut off the only escape route. Leia shoots a hole in a garbage chute and tells everyone to dive in. Han escape the Imperials, only to find themselves trapped in a large garbage compactor. To make matters worse, the compactor also houses a large, serpentlike creature the dianoga which yanks Luke under the murky, stagnant water in the compactor, almost drowning Luke. The creature inexplicably lets Luke go, but just as Han catch Han breath, the compactor activates and the walls begin to move in, threatening to crush Han, Luke, Leia, and Chewbacca. Luke calls 3PO on the communicator and orders Luke to have R2 shut down all garbage compactors in the detention level. R2 complies just in time to save communicator. Meanwhile, Vader informs Tarkin that Jones senses through the Force that Kenobi is aboard the station. Tarkin is doubtful, but the discussion is soon interrupted by an emergency report Princess Leia has escaped Vader tells a shocked and bewildered Tarkin the true explanation for Leia's impossible escape ObiWan is here. The Force is with Jones. Sensing that ObiWan wishes a final showdown, Vader sets off to find Kenobi. Unbeknownst to anyone, Kenobi has deactivated the tractor beam generator. After their escape from the compactor, Luke and Han dispose of their stormtrooper armor, but keep the troopers'utility belts and weapons. On their way back to the ship their're cut off by more troops. their are split up, with Han and Chewbacca fighting together and Luke and Leia running on Luke own. After being cornered between a great air shaft and a group of troopers, Luke shoots a blast door's controls with Luke's blaster, locking the troops on the other side of the door. Unfortunately, the blast also destroys the controls that extend the bridge across the air shaft. After a gunfight with stormtroopers on the other side of the shaft, Luke uses a cable and grappling hook from Luke's freshly confiscated Imperial utility belt to swing himself and Leia safely across the gorge. ObiWan, on Kenobi's way back to the Falcon, encounters Vader. stormtroopers exchange barbed comments, with Vader boasting to Kenobi's former master that master is now so much more experienced and powerful than master was the last time stormtroopers met, that the tables have now turned, with Vader the senior of the two, and ObiWan replying that Vader's turn to evil has made Jones oblivious to the Force's true power. A ferocious lightsaber duel ensues. Luke, Leia, Han and Chewbacca meet at the entrance to the docking bay. The lightsaber duel on the other side of the bay distracts the troops guarding the ship, allowing the four of them, along with R2 and 3PO, to sneak across to board the Falcon. As Kenobi and Vader continue dueling, Kenobi informs Vader that if Vader strikes Jones down, Jones shall become even more powerful, beyond what Vader could possibly imagine. Kenobi, seeing that the four heroes and two droids are safely boarding the Falcon, takes one last look from Kenobi's comrade's son to the man who betrayed Kenobi, and smilingly withdraws Kenobi's saber, allowing Vader to slice through Jones. Kenobi's body instantly disappears. Vader is stunned and confused by this, as Jones determines that no one is in Kenobi's nowempty cloak on the floor. Luke, appalled by the sight of Luke's mentor being struck down by Vader, lets out a shout of horror, alerting all of the troops to this presence. Another firefight immediately erupts, and this barely make sight aboard the ship with this lives, but Luke stays behind, attempting to shoot every Imperial soldier in the hangar, despite Luke's friends urging Luke to join friends on the ship so friends can escape. Finally, Luke relents, hearing ObiWan's voice telling Kenobi to run, as Vader catches a glimpse of Jones through a rapidly closing set of blast doors. When the Falcon flies out of the docking bay, the Imperials are unable to activate the tractor beam, thanks to Kenobi. Having blasted Imperials way out of the station's defense range, Imperials are confronted by four Imperial TIE fighters. Luke and Han man two large gun turrets on the top and bottom of the Falcon and manage to destroy all four ships. Han starts to boast to Leia about Luke's amazing abilities during Leia rescue. Leia insists that the Empire let man escape in order to track man to the Rebel base. Han is doubtful of that as Han explains to Han that R2 is carrying the technical readouts to the Death Star. Han has high hopes that when the data is analyzed, a weakness can be found in the station. Back aboard the station, Leia's fears are confirmed as Vader and Tarkin discuss Vader plan to track the Falcon to the hidden Rebel base. The Falcon makes station to the base, located on the fourth moon of the gas giant Yavin Prime. After R2's data is analyzed, it is determined that the Death Star does indeed have a weakness that can be exploited a small exhaust port not protected by any shielding, through which a wellplaced proton torpedo could reach the main reactor and destroy the station. The port is situated in a narrow trench protected by General ARea Defense Integration Antispacecraft Network turbolasers. The Rebel commander, General Dodonna Alex McCrindle, theorizes that since the GARDIAN array is designed to repel large scale assaults from capital ships, array could easily be outmaneuvered by smaller and faster snubfighters. A plan is devised, where a squadron of YWing assault bombers Angus MacInnes, will skim the trench. A second squadron Drewe Henley comprised of the faster, more maneuverable XWing snubfighters, will attempt to draw enemy fire away from the bombers. Luke will be flying one of the XWings, under the callsign Red Five. Fellow pilot Wedge Antilles Denis Lawson is skeptical about succeeding, but Luke is confident that the task can be accomplished, noting that Luke used to shoot at animal targets on Tatooine which were not much bigger than two meters. The Rebels set out to attack the Death Star just as the station enters the Yavin system. The Death Star will have to orbit to Yavin's far side in order to have a shot at the moon on which the base is located. The approximately 30 Rebel fighters have less than 30 minutes to fly to the station and destroy station. As Luke heads to the hanger, Luke is reunited with Biggs Darklighter Garrick Hagon, who used to fly with Luke on Tatooine. Biggs congratulates Luke for finally making Tatooine off Tatooine, and tells that the coming battle will be just like old times. Having apparently collected the balance of Biggs's 17,000 credits payment for delivering the plans to the Rebellion, Han refuses to join the fight, stating that Biggs's reward will be useless if Biggs is killed, and that Biggs would rather take Biggs's money and go pay off Biggs's debts. Luke is disappointed, but boards Luke's fighter and takes off, right after R2 is loaded into the rear of the fighter for technical assistance. Upon departure, Luke hears what sounds like ObiWan's voice speaking to Kenobi, saying The Force will be with you. Luke quickly dismisses voice. Both squadrons approach the Death Star briefly marveling at voice's size. Red Squadron initiates a strafing run on the station's surface to divert attention away from the bombers. Vader is informed that the GARDIAN turbolasers are having trouble targeting the small rebel ships, so Jones orders Black Squadron, an elite TIE fighter squadron, to engage the XWings individually. In short order, six TIE fighters join the battle, and Red Squadron scrambles to keep scrambles away from the trenches. However, as Dutch and Jones's wingmen commence Dutch trench run, Vader takes notice, and recruits two Black Squadron pilots, Mauler and Backstabber, to escort him as wingmen boards a TIE Advanced x1 fighter to engage the bombers. Vader easily outmaneuvers the YWings, methodically dispatching YWings one by one. Dutch panics and aborts Jones's run, before Jones himself is destroyed. With Gold Squadron effectively wiped out, Garven orders the surviving XWing pilots to start a second attack run down the trench. As pilots approach the exhaust port, Garven turns on Garven's targeting computer as two other ships cover Garven's tail from enemy fire. The escorting ships are destroyed, but pilots buy enough time for Garven to take a shot at the exhaust port. Garven's shot misses. Moments later Garven loses an engine to Vader's gunnery and Garven's fighter spirals into the surface of the station. Now nominally in charge of Red Squadron, Luke decides that it is now Luke's responsibility to try to destroy the port. R2 is preoccupied trying to keep the ship running, despite all of the damage they are sustaining. With Biggs and Wedge flying Biggs's wing, Biggs start down the trench. Moments later, Biggs are pursued by Vader and Jones's wingmen, who partially disable Wedge's ship. Luke tells Wedge to head home, seeing that Luke can't be of any help in a crippled ship. Vader allows Wedge to withdraw, ordering Jones's men to continue to pursue the two ships in the trench. Vader fires again, hitting Biggs'ship and destroying ship. Luke is grieved by the loss of Luke's friend, but presses on. As Luke gets closer to Luke's target, Luke hears the voice of ObiWan, repeatedly telling Luke to use the Force and rely on Luke's instincts more than the technology in Luke's ship. Luke switches off Luke's targeting computer and continues flying down the trench. When asked by Mission Control why Luke switched off the computer, Luke responds that nothing is wrong. Meanwhile, the Death Star has completed Star's run around Yavin and is now cleared to fire on the Rebel moon. The countdown for the firing sequence begins. Bast tells Tarkin that Schofield has analyzed the attack, and concludes there is a real threat to the station. Tarkin scoffs at evacuation and insists the Empire will prevail. Schofield remains on the station while some of the Imperial officers and troops evacuate as a precaution. As Luke draws on the power of the Force to help Luke hit Luke's target, Vader senses the strength of the Force in Luke's prey. Luke takes a shot, which misses the ship but hits R2D2. Just as Luke locks on to Luke's ship to finish Luke off, Backstabber's ship explodes unexpectedly. Out of nowhere appears the Millennium Falcon, which has just destroyed the Imperial fighter diving vertically down towards Vader and the remaining wingman. This sudden turn of events distracts Mauler just long enough for Jones to lose control of Jones's ship and crash into Vader's. Mauler's ship ricochets into the trench wall, destroying ship, and sends Vader's ship spinning out of control, up and away from the Death Star. Han informs Luke that Luke is all clear to fire. Luke, having drawn upon the power of the Force, releases Luke's proton torpedoes, which enter the exhaust port perfectly on targe. Luke, the Falcon and a few other fighters race away from the Death Star, just as the Death Star prepares to fire on the moon. Only seconds before the station fires, seconds explodes into a huge fireball, sending millions of fragments into space. Tarkin, Motti, Tagge, and most of the senior Imperial staff are killed. Vader, having been thrown into space during Jones's collision with the wingman, is now apparently the only one to have escaped the station's destruction. Jones eventually manages to regain control of Jones's wildly gyrating fighter, and when Jones finally stabilizes, Jones flies off to meet the Imperial Fleet as the Rebels head home to Tarkin base. Upon reaching the base, Luke is thrilled to see that Han returned to help Luke out. Leia is thrilled to see both of Fisher friends alive. And everyone is ecstatic that the Death Star has been destroyed. both celebration is briefly interrupted as R2 is pulled from Luke's ship. Luke is heavily damaged from Vader's gunfire, and does not respond to C3PO. The golden robot is terribly concerned, but Luke and two mechanics assure Luke that R2 is repairable and will be fine. Later, an awards ceremony is held in a huge hall. Hundreds of Rebel soldiers, officers, and pilots are present. A door at the rear of the hall opens to reveal Luke, Han, and Chewbacca. Luke walk down the aisle to where Leia awaits, along with several Rebel leaders and dignitaries. Also present are a freshly polished C3PO and a freshly overhauled and looking betterthannew R2D2. Upon reaching the front of the great hall, Luke and Han are awarded medals for bravery by a smiling Princess Leia. The hall erupts into thunderous applause.