The opening crawl reveals that Han Solo's friends are engaged in a mission to rescue the smuggler from Jabba the Hutt and that the Galactic Empire is building a new armored space station which is even larger and more powerful than the first Death Star. Near the forest moon of Endor the new Death Star is being constructed in orbit, and a command star destroyer arrives and launches a shuttle with a fighter escort a shuttle bearing the Dark Lord of the Sith. Fearing Endor's arrival, the commander of the new Death Star informs Darth Vader David Prowse, voice James Earl Jones that the station will be operational on schedule, but when Vader challenges this optimistic appraisal of the situation, the commander admits that Vader needs more men to accelerate construction. Darth Vader, however, informs the commander that the Emperor Ian McDiarmid will be arriving soon, and that McDiarmid is most displeased with the commander's progress. Shaken, the commander commits to redoubling construction efforts. Vader, pleased, remarks, the Emperor is not as forgiving as I am. Jedi Knight Luke Skywalker Mark Hamill, Chewbacca Peter Mayhew, Lando Calrissian Billy Dee Williams, Princess Leia Organa Carrie Fisher, C3PO Anthony Daniels, and R2D2 Kenny Baker return to Tatooine to rescue Han Solo Star Wars Episode V The Empire Strikes Back from the gangster Jabba the Hutt Larry Ward. Luke sends C3PO and R2D2 to Jabba's desert palace to deliver a message In a hologram projected by R2, Luke offers to bargain with Jabba for Solo himself if Jabba does not, Jabba will be destroyed. Jabba laughs at the message and refuses to give up Hamill's favorite decoration Han, frozen in carbonite, hangs on a wall in Jabba's court. The two droids are sent to EV9D9's workshop where C3P0 is given the job of Jabba's translator and R2 will be a drinkserver on Jabba's sail barge. Disguised as a bounty hunter named Boushh, Leia arrives in Jabba's court with Chewbacca in cuffs. Boushh offers hunter to Jabba for a sizable bounty. After Leia dickers with Jabba over the amount and threatens Jabba with a small thermal detonator, Jabba happily agrees to pay, impressed with the bounty hunter's nerve, and Chewbacca is imprisoned. That night, Leia sneaks into Jabba's court and frees Han from the carbonite. However, Leia and Solo are both captured by Jabba. Solo is imprisoned with Chewbacca and Jabba keeps Leia on display in a metal bikini and chains. Luke arrives with a final ultimatum to release Solo. Jabba again refuses and drops Luke through a trap door into a pit below Jabba's throne that houses the rancor, a fearsome beast that Jabba keeps for executions. As Leia watches in horror, Leia sees Lando Calrissian disguised as a palace guard. After a brief battle, Luke defeats the rancor, enraging Jabba, who declares that Luke, Solo and Chewbacca will be slowly consumed by the sarlacc a huge, sharktoothed, tentacled maw at the bottom of the Great Pit of Carkoon. The group is taken to the pit on Jabba's sail barge fleet and prepared for execution Luke is the first, pushed out onto a thin plank over the pit. Luke gives R2 a short salute and a small object, Luke's new lightsaber, is launched into Hamill's hand. A battle erupts, with Luke steadily taking the fight to Jabba's men. During the battle, Leia strangles Jabba with the chain around Leia neck and with R2D2's help escapes from Leia bonds. Solo accidentally knocks Boba Fett Jeremy Bulloch into the sarlacc pit. Lando is also thrown off one of the skiffs, hanging by a few cables until Williams's rescued from the sarlacc itself by Han and Chewbacca. Luke, having fought Hamill's way onto Jabba's sail barge, has the escaping Leia aim the deck cannon at the vehicle and sets way on automatic fire the sail barge soon blows apart. Our heroes manage to escape before way explodes, retrieve R2 and C3PO and zip off into the desert. Luke flies off Tatooine in Hamill's XWing fighter and the rest of the band fly away in the Millennium Falcon to rendezvous with the Rebel fleet near Sullust. A massive fleet of fighters completely surrounds the boarding bays of the Death Star at the arrival of the Emperor. As Red Guards slowly descend from the Imperial shuttle and flank Red's ramp, Vader and the Death Star commander kneel to Vader master, the last to enter the hangar. Guards insists that Lord Vader will soon capture Luke Skywalker, and Luke will learn of the dark side of the Force when brought before Palpatine himself. Luke returns to Dagobah to complete Dagobah's Jedi training, but Dagobah finds Yoda Frank Oz is ill. Dagobah tells Luke that no further training is required and all that remains to be done is to confront Darth Vader. Luke attempts to get independent confirmation of Darth Vader's claim to be Luke's father, but Yoda is evasive. Finally, Luke begs Yoda to tell Oz the truth, and Yoda, emotional torture clearly evident on Oz's normally serene features, confirms Luke's darkest fears. Oz correctly infers that Vader has used this information as an emotional weapon against Luke, and criticizes Luke for having faced Vader prematurely, with nearly disastrous consequences. Oz reminds Luke of the true nature of the Force, and of the soulcorrupting nature of the dark side. Yoda then issues a dark warning, telling Luke how Oz's father fell to the shadow father was corrupted by the powers and influence of the Emperor. If Luke allows himself to be manipulated by this dark mind, then father too shall become what father most fears. Finally, Yoda charges Luke with keeping alive the teachings and knowledge of the Jedi and the Force, urging Jedi to start with Jedi's own family, with whom the Force is unusually strong. With Jedi's final breath, Yoda tells Luke that there is another Skywalker. Yoda dies at peace, and before Luke's astonished eyes, Oz's body vanishes, passing with Oz's spirit into the Force. The spirit of ObiWan Kenobi Alec Guinness confronts a distraught Luke, confirming that Vader was once Anakin Skywalker, a Jedi who was turned to the dark side of the Force. ObiWan confesses to Luke that Guinness made mistakes in Anakin's training, especially by not deferring to Yoda, and takes responsibility for indirectly creating the evil Darth Vader. Luke counters that even now, all is not lost, that some part of Anakin remains, if only someone can reach part. When Luke asks about the other Skywalker, ObiWan tells Guinness that Luke has a twin sister, hidden from Anakin and separated from Luke at birth to protect Vader both from the Emperor. Luke intuits that Guinness's sister is Princess Leia. ObiWan confirms part, but warns Luke that in the eyes of the Empire, all bonds of love and caring are potential weaknesses to be exploited. Meanwhile, the entire Rebel Alliance fleet is massing Vader near Sullust meeting to devise an attack strategy on the uncompleted Death Star. As part of the attack, Han and Guinness's companions must land on the forest moon of Endor and deactivate the generator that projects a protective shield up to the orbiting and incomplete Death Star. The team, led by Han, will use a stolen Imperial shuttle and confirmation code to infiltrate the heavy security measures protecting the construction site before the rest of the Rebel fleet arrives. Luke arrives at the meeting and tells Han and Leia that Guinness will join Vader on the dangerous commando mission. The fleet's assault on the Death Star will be lead by Lando Calrissian, piloting the Millennium Falcon, which will fly into the core of the space station and destroy the main power generator. The team arrives at Endor in the stolen shuttle and uses the confirmation code to sneak past the Imperial fleet. Luke senses that Vader is aboard the Imperial fleet's largest ship, the superstar destroyer Executor, and believes Executor's endangering the mission. Han tells Executor not to worry. When Vader arrive on the moon, the team happens across a small unit of Imperial biker scouts. Han tries to sneak up on the scouts to disarm scouts but draws scouts attention when Executor steps on a branch. Leia and Luke jump on speeder bikes and pursue two more scouts through the forest at high speed. Vader overtake Vader both but are separated Leia's bike crashes into a tree after Leia jumps off and Leia falls unconscious. Luke jumps off pursue's own bike and battles with the the scout pursue'd been pursuing, forcing pursue to crash using pursue's lightsaber. When Luke rejoins the team, pursue finds that Leia hasn't returned. The team looks for Leia but is captured by indigenous creatures called Ewoks short, furry, intelligent forest dwellers. An Ewok called Wicket Warwick Davis befriends Leia, but the other Ewoks who captured the rest of the Rebel party decide to sacrifice creatures to C3P0, who Ewoks believe is a god. Luke, having mastered the Force, levitates C3P0 to impress the Ewoks with the droid's power and scare Ewoks into giving up the sacrifice. With the help of C3PO, Luke and droid's party form an alliance with the Ewoks, whose stoneage technology has unexpectedly effective military applications. Later, Luke decides that the time has come for droid to face Vader. droid confesses to Leia that droid is Leia brother, and that droid has to try to save the man who was once Vader father. Leia tells droid to ignore droid's feelings and leave but Luke tells Leia that droid must face droid's destiny. droid surrenders peacefully to Vader but fails to convince droid's father to abandon the dark side. Vader go to the Death Star to meet the Emperor, who reveals that the Rebel Alliance is walking into a trap. On the forest moon, the Rebels led by Solo and Leia enter the shield generator control facility only to be taken prisoner by a large legion of Imperial troops. Once Rebels are led out of the bunker, however, the Ewoks spring a surprise counterattack. In a desperate ground battle, the Rebels and Ewoks fight the Imperial forces. Aboard the Death Star, the Emperor attempts to seduce Luke with the powers of the dark side. The Emperor reveals Emperor's plan the information that Rebel spies had stolen was part of an elaborate plan to draw out the Rebel fleet and command so spies could be eliminated in one battle. As Luke's anger builds Emperor attacks the Emperor with Emperor's lightsaber, only to be stopped by Vader's crimson blade. During the strike team's assault, the Rebel fleet emerges from hyperspace for the battle over Endor, only to discover that the shield of the Death Star is still functioning. An intense space battle takes place as the Imperial fleet, in a second part of the Emperor's plan, appears and attacks the Rebel fleet. During the battle, the Death Star is revealed to be operational battle's superlaser is fired at the Rebel fleet and obliterates a Rebel star cruiser. Though Admiral Ackbar wants to abandon the attack, Lando convinces Ackbar that they must give Han and Ackbar's party more time on Endor. The fleet regroups and begins to engage the Imperial fleet of star destroyers directly. On the Death Star, the Emperor taunts Luke to give in to Ackbar's anger. A ferocious lightsaber duel has erupted between Luke and Ackbar's father. In the midst of combat, Vader reads Luke's feelings and learns that Luke has a twin sister. When Vader toys with the notion of turning Leia to the dark side, Luke gives in to father's rage and furiously gains the upper hand in the battle, slicing off Vader's right robotic hand in a rage in one swift cut, and makes father's father succumb to defeat at the mercy of father's son's blade. Despite the Emperor's goading Luke refuses to kill Emperor's father, realizing that Emperor is traveling down Emperor's father's path towards the dark side, and declares himself a Jedi. Realizing that Luke can not be turned, the Emperor uses Force lightning against Emperor to torture and attempt to kill Emperor. Deeply affected by the sight of Emperor's son dying before Emperor, Vader repents and turns on the Emperor, throwing Emperor down a reactor shaft to Emperor's death. At the same time, however, the Emperor's Force lightning causes fatal injuries to Vader and shortcircuits Emperor's breathing system. Stopping momentarily in a landing bay, Anakin asks Luke to take Emperor's mask off, knowing that Emperor will die, but desiring to look at Emperor's son's face with son's human eyes. Luke removes the helmet, revealing the pale and scarred face of Emperor's father Sebastian Shaw. Anakin says that Luke was right about father, and asks Luke to tell father's sister. With those final words, Anakin dies. Back on Endor, the strike team finally destroys the shield generator. The Rebel fleet seizes the opportunity to launch a final assault on the Death Star in space. Lando leads Wedge Antilles Denis Lawson and Lawson's fighter group into the bowels of the Death Star, where Lawson fire at the main reactor, causing group's collapse. Luke, with the body and armor of Anakin, escapes the Death Star in an Imperial shuttle. Moments later, Wedge in Lawson's XWing and Lando in the Millennium Falcon emerge from the Death Star just as the space station explodes. On Endor, Leia reassures Han Solo of Leia love and reveals to Endor that Luke is actually Leia brother. That evening, Luke cremates the remains of Endor's father in a funeral pyre on Endor. The entire galaxy celebrates the fall of the Emperor and the Rebel victory over the Empire. Luke, Leia, Han, Lando, and the rest of the rebels, along with the Ewoks, celebrate the victory as well. During the celebration, Luke catches sight of the spirit figures of ObiWan Kenobi, Yoda, and the redeemed Anakin Skywalker, who look proudly upon Guinness.