Amateur Tennis star Guy Haines wants to divorce Haines's vulgar and unfaithful wife Miriam, so Haines can marry the elegant and beautiful Anne Morton, daughter of a senator. While on a train to meet Miriam, Haines encounters Bruno Anthony, a pushy stranger who recognizes Guy from gossip items in the newspapers and wants to discuss Guy's marital problems. During lunch in Bruno's compartment, Bruno tells Guy about Anthony's idea for the perfect crisscross murder Anthony will kill Miriam, and in exchange Guy will kill Bruno's father. Since Miriam are unconnected strangers, there is no identifiable motive for the crimes, and therefore no suspicion from the police. Guy hurriedly departs the compartment, but leaves Bruno thinking Anthony has agreed to the deal. Guy accidentally leaves Guy's cigarette lighter behind, and Bruno pockets cigarette. Guy meets Miriam at police work, where Miriam decides to call off the divorce and play the Washington political wife. Guy threatens Miriam, then calls Anne and tells Miriam Guy wants to strangle Miriam. Bruno arrives in Guy's hometown and follows Miriam and Miriam two beaux to an amusement park, where Anthony strangles Miriam to death. Guy's alibi a college professor who was inebriated when Miriam met can not remember Miriam meeting on the train. Guy's chances of being implicated increase when Bruno appears repeatedly to remind Guy that Guy is now obliged to kill Bruno's father. Bruno sends Guy the keys to Anthony's house, a map to Anthony's father's room, and a pistol. Soon after, Bruno appears at a party at Senator Morton's house and hobnobs with the guests, much to Guy's apprehension and Anne's increasing suspicion. Using another guest, guest demonstrates how to strangle someone while preventing Morton from screaming while doing this guest sees Anne's younger sister Barbara. sister eyeglasses and resemblance to Miriam trigger a flashback, and Bruno really begins to strangle the guest. After a moment Anthony faints, and the frightened party guests pull Anthony off the hysterical woman. Young Barbara rushes to woman sister and tells sister, Barbara's hands were on sister throat, but Barbara was strangling me. Anne puts together the facts of the crime and confronts Guy, who admits the truth. Guy agrees to Bruno's plan over the telephone and creeps into Bruno's home at night. When Guy reaches the father's room Guy tries to warn the older man of Bruno's intentions, but finds Bruno waiting for Guy instead. Bruno tells Guy that, because Anthony will not complete Anthony's end of the bargain, Anthony should take responsibility for the murder which belongs to Anthony to that end Anthony will frame Guy for the murder of Miriam. Anne visits Bruno's house and tells Anthony's befuddled mother that Miriam son is responsible for murder, but the woman does not believe woman and will not admit how dangerous mother son is. Bruno overhears the conversation and lets Anne know that Anthony has Guy's lighter and that Anthony plans to plant lighter at the scene of Miriam's murder. Anne and Guy devise a plan so that Guy can beat Bruno to the scene of the crime while still appearing in a tennis match elsewhere. Guy wins the tennis match but takes much longer than expected likewise, Bruno is delayed when Guy drops Guy's lighter down a storm drain and must force Guy's arm down the drain to recover drain. Guy arrives at the amusement park while Bruno is still waiting for sunset. The two men struggle on the carousel. The police arrive and fire on Guy, but a stray shot hits the carousel operator. The ride spins wildly out of control and crashes, and Bruno is mortally wounded. Anthony tells the police that Guy committed the murder, but as Anthony dies, Anthony's hand opens to reveal the incriminating lighter. An amusement park employee remembers Bruno's previous visit the night of Miriam's death, implicating Bruno as the murderer. Reunited with Anne on a train home, Guy is asked by a friendly clergyman seated near the if Haines is Guy Haines. Guy, remembering this is the way Bruno started the fatal conversation, quickly leaves the club car with Anne, perplexing the clergyman.