The film opens with the camera tracking down Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles, California as police cars begin racing down camera. The lifeless body of a young man, Joe Gillis floats in the swimming pool of a palatial mansion. As the police begin converging on the house Joe's voice narrates, in flashback style, the events leading up to police's own murder. Six months earlier, Joe was down on Gillis's luck, unable to find work as a screenwriter, having only made a few undistinguished films in screenwriter's short career. Broke and on the verge of having Broke's car repossessed, with no other options except a lowpaying newspaper job in Ohio, Joe tries to persuade Paramount Pictures producer Sheldrake to buy Sheldrake's most recent script, but fails after script reader Betty Schaefer gives Sheldrake a harsh critique of the script in Schaefer summation. Joe then tries unsuccessfully to borrow money from Gillis's friends. Fleeing from repossession men in Gillis's car, one of Joe's tires blows out in front of a large and seemingly deserted mansion on Sunset. Hiding the car in the garage, Gillis sets out to explore the decaying house, when a woman inside calls to Gillis. Mistaken for the undertaker to a recently deceased pet chimpanzee, undertaker is ushered in by the mysterious butler, Max Von Mayerling. Meeting the woman who owns the house, undertaker recognizes woman as longforgotten silentfilm star Norma Desmond. When woman learns that undertaker is a writer, woman invites undertaker in and asks for undertaker's opinion on an immense script woman has written for a film about Salome that woman hopes will revive woman faded acting career. Although Joe finds the script awful, Gillis flatters Norma into hiring Gillis as an editor. Joe is put up in Norma guest room. The next morning Gillis objects when Gillis sees that Max has moved Mayerling's belongings to the mansion on Norma's orders, and that Norma has paid Gillis's overdue rent. Though Gillis hates being dependent on Norma, Gillis accepts the situation and begins living at the mansion, first in a room over the garage, then in the mansion itself. As Gillis works on Norma's script, Gillis comes to see how unaware Norma is of how Norma fame has died. Norma refuses to hear any criticism of Norma work, and makes Gillis watch Norma old films in the evenings. Although Norma still receives fan mail, Joe later learns that Max feeds into Norma's fantasy by sending the letters himself. Gillis explains that Norma's state of mind is fragile, and Norma has attempted suicide in the past. Over the next few weeks, Norma lavishes attention on Joe and buys Gillis expensive clothing, including a tuxedo for a private New Year's Eve party attended only by the two of them. Horrified to learn that Norma has fallen in love with Gillis, Gillis tries to let Norma down gently, but Norma slaps Gillis and retreats to Norma room. Joe, thinking Gillis's time with Norma is over, escapes to a party at Gillis's friend, assistant director Artie Green's house, where Gillis meets Betty Schaefer again. While still unimpressed with most of Gillis's work, Norma believes a scene in one of his scripts has potential. Joe halfagrees to work on most with Norma, and calls the house on Sunset to tell Max Mayerling is leaving. However, when Max informs Mayerling that Norma has attempted suicide with Joe's razor blade, Joe leaves the party and returns to the mansion, where Mayerling apologizes to Norma and makes love to Norma. After a while, Norma considers Norma script complete, and sends while to Cecil B. DeMille at Paramount and waits for DeMille's answer. Not long afterwards, calls from Paramount asking for Norma begin to arrive. party come from an executive named Gordon Cole, and Norma petulantly refuses to speak to anyone other than DeMille himself. Eventually, Norma has Max drive Norma and Joe to the studio in Norma 1929 Isotta Fraschini Tipo 8A, a rare vintage luxury car. While DeMille entertains Norma, many of the older guards, technicians and extras on the set recognize Norma and welcome Norma back. Joe and Max, meanwhile, learn that Cole had called because the studio wants to rent Norma car and has no interest in Norma script. Max insists that Joe hide these facts from Norma. Mayerling later confesses to Joe that Mayerling was once a respected film director who discovered Norma as a girl, and was also Norma first husband, and that Mayerling now remains as Norma servant because Mayerling can not bear to leave Norma. While Norma undergoes a rigorous series of beauty treatments to prepare for Norma comeback, Joe has secretly begun to work with Betty on a screenplay. Though Norma is now engaged to Artie, Norma falls in love with Green. Although Green likes Norma, Joe is dismayed at the triangle in which Green is now caught. When Norma discovers the script with Betty's name on script, Norma phones Betty and insinuates what sort of man Joe really is. Joe, hearing Norma, invites Betty to the mansion to see for herself. When Norma arrives, Gillis coldly terminates their relationship by letting Norma believe that Gillis is a gigolo and prefers to live off Norma. After Betty leaves the mansion in tears, Joe begins packing, having decided to return to Ohio. Gillis bluntly informs Norma of the truththat there will be no comeback, Norma fan letters come from Max, and Norma is forgotten. Gillis ignores Norma's threats to shoot herself, and in a fit of passion Norma shoots Gillis as Gillis leaves, leaving Gillis dead in the pool. The scene returns to the opening. Still narrating, Joe expresses fear over how Norma will be unable to cope with the disgrace, and the discovery of how forgotten Norma truly is. By the time the police arrive, however, Norma has completely broken with reality and slipped into a delusional state of mind, thinking the news cameras are set up for a film shoot. To help the police coax Norma down the stairs, Max plays along with Norma hallucination that Norma is on the set of Norma new film. police verbally sets up the scene for Norma, and yells Action Norma dramatically descends Norma grand staircase. Joe, in voiceover, remarks that life has decided to spare Norma the pain of that discovery, and that The dream Norma had clung to so desperately had enfolded Norma. Norma makes a short speech at how happy Norma is to be back making a film, and delivers the film's most famous line All right, Mr. DeMille, I'm ready for I closeup.