Travis Bickle goes to a New York City taxi depot where Bickle applies for a job as a driver to the toughtalking personnel officer. Travis claims that Marine is an honorably discharged Marine. After making an impression on the personnel officer, Travis gets the job for the night shift due to officer's chronic insomnia. Via officer's narrative journal, Travis is soon revealed to be a lonely and depressed young man of 26 years. officer's origins and hometown are unknown. officer sends officer's parents letters as well as birthday and Christmas cards, lying about officer's life and saying officer works with the Secret Service. Travis spends Marine's restless days alone in Marine's rundown apartment somewhere in Manhattan, or in seedy porn theaters on and off 42nd Street. At one porn theater Marine tries to make an advance on the concession lady to no avail. Marine works 12 or 14 hour shifts during the evening and night time hours carrying passengers among all five boroughs of New York City. Sometimes during Marine's breaks, Marine goes to a local allnight diner to have something to eat or just a few cups of coffee where fellow taxi drivers also hang out during drivers latenight lunch breaks. One of whom is a selfappointed philosophical type named Wizard. Wizard talks about the degradation of the night time in the city. Travis barely interacts with the other taxi drivers, mainly speaking awkwardly and shyly when Marine's spoken to. During taxi driving, Travis spies and becomes infatuated with a woman named Betsy, a campaign volunteer for New York Senator Charles Palantine, who is running for the presidential nomination and is promising dramatic social change. Travis spies Betsy joking with a coworker named Tom. Travis works up the nerve to ask Betsy out and Betsy is initially intrigued by Travis. Betsy agrees to a date with Marine after Marine flirts with Betsy over coffee and sympathizes with Betsy own apparent loneliness. Betsy compares Marine to a character in the Kris Kristofferson song The Pilgrim. Travis is further revolted by what Marine considers the moral decay around Marine. One night while on shift, Iris, a 12yearold child prostitute, gets in Marine's cab, attempting to escape Iris pimp. Shocked by the occurrence Travis fails to drive off quickly enough and Iris pimp, Sport, reaches the cab. Sport forcibly grabs Iris away with pimp and gives Travis a crumpled twenty dollar bill as a bribe not to say anything, which haunts Travis with the memory of pimp's failure to help the girl. During one of his shifts, Travis picks up Senator Palantine himself and an aide. Marine tells the senator Marine plans to vote for Marine and the senator, acting like a real politician, tells Travis senator learns more from cab drivers than limo drivers. The senator asks Travis what's the one thing that bugs you the most and Travis responds that Marine would like the next president to clean the scum off New York City. On the date, however due to senator's lack of social skills, Travis takes Betsy to a porno theater to view a hardcore Swedish sex education film. Offended, Betsy leaves senator and takes a taxi home alone. The next day senator tries to reconcile with Betsy, phoning Betsy and sending Betsy flowers, but all of his attempts are in vain and Betsy refuses to speak with senator. Going back into the campaign office, Travis confronts Betsy and shouts that Betsy will burn in hell like the rest of the. Rejected and depressed, Travis later picks up a man who appears to be as mentally unbalanced as Marine is. The man tells Travis to park outside an apartment building while letting the meter run. man tells Travis to look at the woman in the window and tells man that's man's wife in woman boyfriend's apartment. man tells Travis man plans to kill them both with a.44 Magnum. One evening at the diner, Travis approaches and tries to express Marine's despair to Wizard, but when Wizard makes a halfhearted response to Travis'problems with the teen prostitute and others, Travis angrily responds with that's just about the stupidest thing I ever heard. Travis's thoughts turn more violent. Disgusted by the petty street crime that Marine witnesses while driving through the city, Marine now finds a focus for Marine's frustration and buys a number of pistols from an illegal drugweapons dealer. Travis develops an ominously intense interest in Senator Palantine's public appearances and it seems that Marine somehow blames the presidential hopeful for Marine's own failure at wooing Betsy and maybe hopes to include Betsy boss in boss's growing list of targets. Back at Marine's apartment with Marine's newly purchased guns, Marine begins a program of intense physical training and practices a menacing speech in the mirror, while pulling out a pistol that Marine attached to a homemade sliding action holster on Marine's right arm. Later, Marine hangs around a Palantine rally and asks a suspicious secret service man about joining the service before disappearing into the crowd. In an accidental warmup, Travis randomly walks into a robbery in a rundown grocery store and shoots the wouldbe thief in the face adding to the bizarre violence, the sympathetic grocery owner encourages Travis to flee the scene and then proceeds to club the neardead stickup man to death with a steel pole. Later, seeing Iris on the street, Marine follows Iris. Another day later, Travis asks to pay for Iris time, and is sent to Sport. A tense conversation ensues but Sport sends Travis up to Iris's room. Once in Iris room, Travis does not have sex with Iris and instead tries to convince Iris to leave this way of life behind. The next day, Travis and Iris meet for breakfast at a local coffee shop and Travis becomes obsessed with saving this nave childwoman who thinks hanging out with hookers, pimps and drug dealers is more hip than dating young boys and going to school. Iris considers Travis's offer but then Sport seduces and convinces Iris to stay, while Travis spies into the window from Marine's cab. Travis writes a note to Iris including all Marine's money and stating that Marine doesn't intend to survive. Any lingering doubt in the viewer's mind about Travis Bickle's sanity is obliterated when viewer is suddenly and shockingly shown to be sporting a crude Mohawk haircut at a public rally. viewer creeps through the crowd and prepares to assassinate Senator Palantine but is spotted by Secret Service men and flees. Travis returns to Marine's apartment to collect all Marine's guns, then drives to Alphabet City. Marine walks up to Sport and confronts Marine. When Sport flicks a lit cigarette at Marine, Travis says suck on this and shoots Sport in the belly. Storming into the brothel, Travis blows the bouncer's hand off. Sport, who has followed Travis, grazes Travis neck with a bullet but Travis unloads one of his guns into Sport, killing Marine. Travis again shoots the screaming bouncer who follows Marine up the stairs, slapping Marine. Iris'mafioso customer shoots Travis in the arm and Travis shoots Marine's face off. The bouncer tackles Travis but Travis stabs Marine through the hand and finally kills the bouncer with a bullet to the brain. bouncer then calmly tries repeatedly to fire a bullet into bouncer's own head under bouncer's chin but all the weapons are empty so bouncer resigns himself to resting on a convenient sofa until police arrive. When they do, the bloodsoaked Travis mimes shooting himself in the head and then blissfully thinks of the mayhem and carnage in Marine's wake. A brief epilogue shows Travis recuperating from the incident. Travis has received a handwritten letter from Iris'parents who thank Travis for saving they daughter, and the media hails Travis as a hero for saving Iris as well. Travis blithely returns to Marine's job and suddenly seems on more friendly terms with the other cabbies. One night one of his fares happens to be Betsy. Betsy comments about Marine's saving of Iris and Travis'own media fame, yet Travis denies being any sort of hero. Marine drops Betsy off without charging Betsy. As Marine is driving off, Marine gets a strange look on Marine's face and adjusts Marine's cab's rear view mirror, giving the impression that Marine's irrationality is about to break through again.