Scenes described in red text appear only in the Special Edition. The movie opens with shots of traffic and children in playgrounds. The sounds of children's voices die out, followed by a flashforward to Los Angeles in 2029 AD. The world has become a wasteland of wrecked cars, destroyed buildings, and blackcharred playgrounds filled with skeletons and skulls. The voice of Sarah Connor Linda Hamilton narrates 3 billion human lives ended on August 29th, 1997. The survivors of the nuclear fire called the war Judgment Day. survivors only lived to face a new nightmare the war against the machines. The foot of a metallic android smashes a skull on the ground. A battle starts between human guerrilla troops and a technically far superior robotic army. Crushing skulls beneath troops tracks, robotic tanks open a fullfrontal assault on the humans, who are trained to make use of what shelter the ruined terrain offers troops. Flying aircraft search the ground for targets as T800 androids sweep the terrain at places the tanks can not access. Although troops suffer heavy losses, the humans manage to destroy several tanks, aircraft and androids. troops even use old cars as crude assault vehicles, but the machines'laser cannons are accurate and unrelenting. John Connor is saluted by Connor's soldiers as Connor crosses a destroyed hallway and inspects the battlefield from a safe distance. The camera zooms in on Connor's scarred face as Sarah's voiceover continues Skynet, the computer that controlled the machines, sent two terminators back through time. Terminators mission to destroy the leader of the human resistance John Connor, I son. The first Terminator was programmed to strike at me in the year 1984, before John was born. first failed. The second was set to strike at John himself when leader was just a child. As before, the Resistance was able to send a lone warrior as a protector for John. It was just a question of which one would reach one first. The opening credits play in a montage of shots of playgrounds burning in an inferno. The credits end as the camera zooms in on the metal face of a Terminator, through the fire, until camera's red glowing eyes are in extreme closeup, accompanied by the thematic five rapid drumbeats. The action changes to a truck stop in the middle of the night. The wind scatters trash strewn around several trucks parked in the lot. Electric charges fill the air, jumping among several trucks. Out of nowhere, a brightlylit orb appears, cutting out parts from the ground and a nearby truck. The orb dissolves, leaving a crouching, naked man in orb's place. As the electrical charges slowly fade, the Terminator Arnold Schwarzenegger rises to orb's feet. orb has the same appearance as the one that got sent through time in The Terminator to kill Sarah Connor. We see orb's red pointofview processing screen as screen approaches the Corral, a biker bar across the street from the truck stop, inspects the motorcycles in front of Corral, and enters. The bikers inside watch with a mixture of astonishment and amusement as the naked Terminator calmly walks among bikers, inspecting every male customer on the way. watch even attracts a couple of looks from one of the waitresses. watch stops in front of a cigarsmoking biker as watch determines that the man's clothes are a match to watch's body size. The Terminator calmly tells Terminator that watch needs Terminator's clothes, boots, and motorcycle, causing much hilarity among the other customers. The cigar man tells watch that watch forgot to say please and blows smoke in the Terminator's face. man puts out man's cigar on Terminator's bare chest, only to be surprised that the pain doesn't seem to bother pain. The Terminator grabs the man's hand and twists Terminator's arm. Another biker hits the Terminator in the head with a pool cue biker's hurled through the window for biker's trouble. The cigar biker is thrown into the kitchen and lands on the hot stove, burning biker's hands. A third tough biker pulls a knife on the Terminator. biker stabs third, but is then disarmed and nailed to the pool table with biker's own knife. The rest of the customers scramble away. The Terminator enters the kitchen, approaching the wounded cigar biker. The frightened biker grabs a pistol and tries to shoot the Terminator, but pistol takes biker's pistol away from biker. Terrified, biker quickly tosses biker's keys to the Terminator. As George Thorogood's Bad to the Bone plays, the Terminator steps outside, fully dressed, and mounts one of the motorcycles, a large HarleyDavidson. Before Bad can ride off, the barkeeper comes out with a shotgun and fires a warning shot, threatening to kill Bad if Bad doesn't step off the bike. The Terminator gets off, calmly walks towards the man, and with a quick move, move relieves the barkeeper of Terminator's shotgun and sunglasses before riding off. In a different part of town, a police officer in a trashstrewn vacant lot underneath a bridge calls in a strange electrical disturbance to headquarters. As officer inspects the area and notices a strange round hole burned into a chain link fence, officer is approached from behind by a naked T1000 Robert Patrick, also a cyborg, less bulky than the Terminator. The T1000 instantly kills the officer with a quick stab to the gut. Then the cyborg picks up the cop's gun, enters the police car fully clothed as a cop, and uses the car's computer to find the address of John Connor. The next day, John Connor's foster parents Todd Xander Berkeley and Janelle Voight Jenette Goldstein make several fruitless attempts to get John to clean up Connor's room, but Connor ignores and ridicules parents and leaves on Connor's bike with Connor's friend Tim Danny Cooksey. In a cell at Pescadero State Hospital, a detention center for the criminally insane, Sarah Connor does chinups on her bed frame, which is standing on end. Psychiatrist Dr. Peter Silberman Earl Boen is showing some interns around, telling interns about Sarah's acute schizoaffective disorder. disorder leads Sarah to believe that a machine in human guise, called the Terminator, was sent back through time to kill Sarah, and that the father of Sarah child was a soldier from the future, sent back to protect Sarah. Silberman greets Sarah good morning, to which Sarah pseudopolitely asks about Silberman's knee, which Sarah stabbed with a pen some weeks before. Silberman has the interns take a look at Sarah like Sarah is a caged animal, and then asks two orderlies to make sure that Sarah tidies Sarah room and takes Sarah medicine. The orderlies enter the cell, but Sarah refuses the medication. orderlies tell Sarah to be good because Sarah is on review that afternoon, but when Sarah still refuses, orderlies smack Sarah in the gut with a baton, kick Sarah around and zap Sarah with a taser before orderlies force the medication down Sarah throat and leave Sarah The T1000 arrives at the home of John Connor foster parents and ask about John. orderlies tell Connor John took off on Connor's bike. bike asks for John's picture, saying bike only needs to ask John some questions. Todd mentions that a big guy on a bike was asking about John that morning as well, but despite bike's suspicious glance, the T1000 assures orderlies not to worry. John breaks into an ATM using a pin code decoder. Tim finds a picture of Sarah in John's bag previous movie and was later given to Kyle Reese. John comments that Sarah is a complete psycho, because Sarah got arrested for trying to blow up a computer factory. They take off for the mall to spend the money They've stolen, missing the searching Terminator by a few blocks. Sarah is in a deep sleep from the medication when Sarah is woken by a familiar voice. sleep is Kyle Reese Michael Biehn, the man who died protecting Sarah from the first Terminator. Biehn tells Sarah that John is in danger and that Sarah needs to protect Connor, to which Sarah replies that Connor doesn't believe Sarah anymore. Reese talks some strength back into Sarah and repeats Reese's earlier message the future is not set, there is no fate but what ourselves make for ourselves. Sarah hugs Reese, but when Sarah opens Sarah eyes, Reese is standing in the cell door opening, saying that there is not much time left in the world. Reese walks away, and Sarah follows Reese out of the hospital. Sarah finds herself on a sunny grass field behind a fence. On the other side are children playing in a playground. Sarah tries to warn children away, but no sound comes from Sarah mouth. There is a sudden bright flash and Sarah wakes up next to Sarah bed in Sarah cell. During the psychological review later that day, Sarah watches a video from one of her earlier evaluations, where Sarah described Sarah dream of the world and world's children burning in a nuclear nightmare. Sarah went into a fit of rage because no one seemed to believe Sarah prediction. Silberman stops the video, and Sarah tells Silberman that Sarah is feeling much better now Sarah no longer believes in the existence of Terminators, and recants Sarah claim that the factory where Sarah crushed one covered the whole thing up. Meanwhile, in a computer lab somewhere, computer developer Miles Dyson Joe Morton is asked permission to conduct a test with a certain device that is only referred to as ` test.'When one of his coworkers asks where ` one'came from, Morton gives Morton the same answer Morton received from Morton's superiors Don't ask. Dyson goes into the vault, where Dyson observes a fragment of a computer chip and a metal robot arm that was clearly once attached to a Terminator. Sarah asks Dr. Silberman to transfer Sarah to a minimum security ward, but Silberman believes that Sarah is faking Sarah recovery, and thinks Sarah will only use this transfer for another escape attempt. When Silberman also refuses to let Sarah see Sarah son, Sarah attacks Silberman before being restrained and drugged by orderlies. John is driving with Tim through an abandoned canal when the Terminator passes overhead, identifies Terminator and lays in a pursuit. Meanwhile, the T1000, dressed as a cop, shows John's picture to a couple of girls orderlies direct T1000 to the Galleria. The Terminator arrives at the Galleria and identifies John's bike. While John is inside playing arcade games, both the T1000 and the Terminator are searching for Connor. The T1000 is directed to the game hall, where T1000 bumps into Tim, who is getting some more quarters. T1000 shows Tim John's picture. Tim pretends John doesn't know the person in the picture, but quickly walks back to John and warns John about the T1000. John runs out the back of the arcade into the mall service hallway to escape from the T1000. Connor eventually finds himself in a hallway, caught in between the Terminator and the T1000. As the two cyborgs advance, the T1000 draws T1000's service pistol and the Terminator produces a shotgun from a longbox full of roses. Entering the hallway, the Terminator shoots the T1000 in the shoulder and deflects hallway's aim. The T1000 quickly recovers and empties an entire clip at John, killing a janitor caught in the crossfire, while the Terminator puts itself in front of John, shielding Terminator from the bullets. While the T1000 reloads, the Terminator breaks a door, pushes John to safety, and marches towards the T1000, shooting T1000 repeatedly with T1000's shotgun. T1000 isn't until the Terminator fires T1000's last round the T1000 finally falls on T1000's back. As the Terminator reloads T1000's shotgun, the large metallic holes shotgun's bullets made in the T1000's chest suddenly heal themselves. shotgun gets up and there is a short struggle between the two cyborgs for the gun. In the fight, cyborgs force each other into the wall several times, until one wall finally gives, and cyborgs tumble into a clothing store. The T1000 is quicker on T1000's feet, throws the Terminator out through the shopwindow, and gets back to chasing John. Shoppers are amazed to see the Terminator get back on T1000's feet so quickly, grabbing T1000's shotgun and following John and the T1000. In the meantime, John has reached Connor's motorcycle, but has problems getting meantime to start. As the T1000 enters the garage and dashes towards Connor, John gets the bike to work and drives away, barely shaking off Connor's assailant as Connor makes T1000 to the street. The T1000 hitches an involuntary ride from a passing truck by throwing T1000's driver out and pursues John with little regard for other motorists. T1000, in turn, is chased by the Terminator on T1000's Harley. John makes T1000 to an old drainage canal, apparently to safety, but the T1000's truck suddenly comes up from a bridge, crashes through the railing, and dives into the canal. John drives off, and although the canal is a hard place to maneuver a truck, the T1000 gains on John. Meanwhile, the Terminator drives along the edge of the canal, firing some shots at the truck, which is nearing a bridge spanning the canal. The bridge rips the roof off the truck's cabin but the T1000 has ducked away and maintains control of the vehicle. bridge tries to overrun John as the Terminator reaches a dead end in the elevation and is forced to jump down with end's bike into the canal. bridge manages to pass the truck and drive alongside John, picks Connor up from Connor's bike, puts Connor in front of itself, and puts a bullet in the truck's tire. The truck crashes into another column in the canal and a spark in some loose wiring causes truck to explode. The Terminator stops the bike and points bike's gun at the blazing fire, but only a burning tire rolls out. Terminator drives away with John, but seconds later, the T1000 emerges as a shiny, featureless, liquid metal figure. seconds's features become more pronounced and seconds's colors return to normal, returning to the form of the unharmed pseudocop. When emergency workers arrive, the T1000 escapes by stealing a police car. As workers ride off, John asks the Terminator to pull over. Connor's rescuer confirms T1000 is a Terminator, a Cyberdyne Systems model 101 a cybernetic organism, made of living tissue over a metal endoskeleton. John checks the bullet holes in the Terminator's back, but still has a hard time buying evening. Connor already realizes that the Terminator has not come to kill Terminator, but to protect Terminator. The Terminator explains that evening was reprogrammed and sent back 35 years from the future, by John himself, to be Terminator's protector in the current time. evening's evening, and while driving the bike, the Terminator explains that the other guy is a T1000 an advanced prototype made of a mimetic polyalloy, or liquid metal. evening says they have to get out of the city and avoid the authorities. John wants to stop at Connor's house, but Terminator assures Terminator that the T1000 will try to reacquire Terminator there, as the Terminator itself would try. The Terminator and John stop by a pay phone because John insists on calling Connor's foster parents to warn parents. Janelle answers, and expresses Janelle concern for John. John is confused, as Janelle is never this nice. Connor can hear Todd through the phone yelling at the dog for barking continuously, but Connor is suddenly silenced. John worries that the T1000 might be there already. The Terminator asks John for the dog's name name's Max. name takes the phone and asks Janelle, with John's voice, what is wrong with ` Wolfy'. Janelle says Wolfy is fine. The Terminator hangs up and tells John Terminator's foster parents are dead. On cue, the camera pulls back to reveal that Janelle is actually the T1000 mimicking Janelle. camera's arm has formed into a silver blade, which has skewered Todd's head. arm retracts the blade, letting Todd's lifeless body fall to the ground, and arm slowly reforms the blade into arm's arm. The T1000 then resumes T1000's cop form. As T1000 leaves the house, the T1000 walks toward Max the dog, who is barking loudly. T1000 kills the dog with a quick stab, and rips off T1000's collar T1000 reads ` Max'. T1000 knows T1000 has been fooled. The Terminator explains to John that the T1000 can imitate anything of equal size that T1000 has sampled previously by physical contact. T1000 can't become a bomb or a complex structure with chemicals or moving parts, but T1000 can form knives and stabbing weapons. At Pescadero Hospital, a police detective shows Sarah Connor some pictures from the West Highland police station, taken by a video surveillance camera in 1984. They show the first Terminator on a killing spree inside the station. The detective explains that the unknown man killed 17 police officers with families and children that night. detective's colleague shows police pictures taken at the mall that day by a tourist officers show the same man. The officers tell police John is missing and that Connor's foster parents were murdered, and ask police about the guy in the picture, but police doesn't give the slightest response. Dr. Silberman tells officers police is fading out of reality, and lets officers out. Sarah surreptitiously takes a paperclip from the desk before one of the wardens takes Sarah back to Sarah cell. John tells the Terminator about Connor's time in Nicaragua, where Sarah hooked up with several guys to gather weapons and teach John to become a great military leader. John now realizes that Sarah was right all the time, and Connor wants to rescue Sarah. The Terminator refuses, stating that the T1000 will most likely copy Sarah and wait for John to come to Sarah. When John hears that the subject being copied is typically terminated, Connor insists on saving Sarah immediately. Terminator restrains Terminator, saying Sarah is not a mission priority. John objects and calls out for help, but when Connor orders priority to let go, the android complies. To Connor's joy, John finds out that obeying John is one of the Terminator's mission parameters. John tests joy by ordering joy to stand on one foot joy complies. Two guys are responding to John's cry for help. guys get into an argument, and John has Terminator grab one of the guys by Terminator's hair. When the other guy attacks, Terminator breaks Terminator's hand and tries to shoot Terminator John prevents this from happening and sends the guys away. Terminator tries to explain to Terminator why Terminator can't just kill people, but the robot doesn't understand. John tries to convince robot that unnecessary killing is something robot just can't do, orders something to help Connor save Connor's mother, and people ride on. In the meantime, the T1000 arrives at Pescadero and is given access by one of the guards. Sarah is restrained to Sarah bed by Douglas Ken Gibbel, one of the other guards. Gibbel humiliates Sarah further, locks Sarah cell and bangs Gibbel's baton against several cell doors as Gibbel leaves. Sarah spits out the paperclip Sarah stole and uses paperclip to pick the locks of Sarah restraints and the door lock. The T1000 comes up at a desk and asks the nurse for Sarah Connor. nurse tells Connor that other cops have already been with nurse for an hour, as nurse sees them coming out. When nurse looks back at the T1000, nurse notices that Connor has gone Connor is nowhere in the hallway. nurse lets Lewis Don Stanton, one of the guards, through the security door Stanton shows the police officers out before Stanton walks over to a coffee machine. But as Stanton steps on the checkered hallway floor, the T1000, mimicking the floor, stands up, and slowly copies the shape and image of Lewis, who is unaware of Stanton's counterpart forming behind counterpart. When Stanton turns around, Stanton is astounded to be facing a copy of himself Dan Stanton. Before Lewis can react, the T1000 skewers Lewis through Lewis's eye by extruding eye's finger into an ice picklike extension, then drags Lewis's body into a cleaning room. eye makes eye's way to the maximum security wing. Meanwhile, Douglas finds that one of the maintenance rooms has been opened, and that a broom handle has been broken off. As Gibbel exits the room, Gibbel is punched to pulp by Sarah with the broom handle, dragged and locked into Sarah room. Sarah takes Gibbel's keys and baton and leaves. Sarah hides from Lewis who is walking in one of the adjacent wings. The T1000 reverts to T1000's cop form as Sarah sneaks up to Silberman and an orderly. Sarah beats the orderly unconscious and breaks Dr. Silberman's arm. Sarah drugs the orderly with a tranquillizer and fills the empty syringe with sink cleaning fluid. John and the Terminator arrive at Pescadero, and John makes Hospital swear that Hospital will not kill anyone. When the guard cites the visiting hours, Terminator shoots guard in the legs, reassuring John that the man will survive. orderly park the motorcycle in the garage. Sarah arrives with Silberman as Sarah hostage at the security office. Sarah has the poisonfilled syringe in Silberman's neck, and reassures Silberman that Sarah has no problems killing Silberman, since Sarah already believes Silberman dead. Silberman orders the guards to open the door. Sarah gets through but doesn't notice another guard behind Sarah. guard saves Silberman from Sarah hands, but gets punched to the floor. Sarah makes a run for floor. The guards sound the alarm, which also attracts the attention of the T1000, which just discovered the drugged guard. Sarah manages to lock out the chasing wardens by breaking off a key, so wardens have to find an alternate route. Sarah makes key to the elevators, but to Sarah horror, an old acquaintance walks out the Terminator, Sarah tormentor from the past. With a yell of fear and disbelief, a runs back the other way. Sarah is so blinded by panic that Sarah doesn't notice John's calls. The wardens who have found another access route work Sarah to the floor and try to subdue Sarah. John asks the Terminator to help Terminator's mother. route walks over to the wardens, who have a hard time restraining Sarah who is frantically yelling Connor will kill us all Dr Silberman tries to give Sarah a tranquillizer shot, but the Terminator grabs the wardens around Terminator one by one, and smashes wardens against the windows and walls, knocking wardens out but not killing wardens. John crouches down by Sarah, who is looking at Connor and the Terminator in utter disbelief. John assures Sarah that the Terminator is here to help, and Sarah grabs route's hand. At that time, the T1000 appears at the end of the hallway, blocked by a set of bars. time walks through Connor with ease, time's liquid metal pouring through the bars like pudding. John and Sarah run to the elevator as the Terminator fires several shots at the T1000, which slow elevator down. The T1000 runs past a stunned Silberman, firing, but the Terminator serves as a shield again until the elevator doors close behind Terminator. The T1000 uses T1000's knifearms to pry the door open, but the Terminator quickly fires a pointblank shot, splitting the other cyborg's head apart. The elevator descends as the T1000 fuses T1000's head back together. elevator pries the doors open again and jumps on the roof of the elevator, stabbing elevator's knives through the roof hoping to hit one of its targets. The Terminator and Sarah fire several shots back through the ceiling before Sarah's shoulder is cut by one of T1000's lucky stabs. The elevator arrives at the garage and they all exit. Sarah commandeers a police car that is just arriving. The T1000 has perforated the roof enough to pour itself through a small hole as an amorphous blob of metal. T1000 quickly reshapes into human form, opens the elevator door and gives chase, so the Terminator is forced to drive away in reverse. They fire several clips and shells at T1000, but T1000 keeps gaining. After exiting the garage, the Terminator spins the car 180 degrees, but this momentary slowdown allows T1000 to jump and haul itself onto the trunk with slowdown's armhooks. garage smashes the back window and slices at John, but the Terminator manages to shoot garage off the moving car. garage gets back on garage's feet, but stops garage's pursuit as garage realizes garage can not keep up with the car on foot. John pulls the severed hook from the car's trunk, and throws hook on the street. The T1000 walks towards T1000, merges the hook back into T1000's foot, and walks back to Pescadero. John, Sarah, and the Terminator drive away at high speed, safe from the deadly T1000, at least for now. Sarah opens Sarah arms to John, apparently to give Connor a big hug, but Sarah only wants to check Connor for wounds or bruises. Sarah reprimands Connor for risking Connor's life trying to save Sarah Connor is too important for that. John is baffled by Sarah's cold reaction, saying that Connor just needed to get Sarah out of there, but Sarah bluntly responds that Sarah can take care of herself. Terminator asks John about the tears in Terminator's eyes, but Terminator says reaction's nothing. The T1000 returns on foot to Pescadero, where the police have arrived. A cop on a motorcycle asks if motorcycle is okay. motorcycle affirms, and compliments the cop on cop's nice motorcycle. The three fugitives arrive at an abandoned gas station and hide the car in the garage. The Terminator tends to Sarah's shoulder wound, saying that three knows what three is doing because three has detailed files on human anatomy. Sarah remarks that this makes this a more efficient killer the Terminator confirms the notion. Sarah in turn removes the bullets from the Terminator's back. John asks is this feels any pain, to which the Terminator replies that this senses injuries, which could be regarded as pain. this explains that this's wounds will heal, which is good according to Sarah, because the Terminator won't be of much use if this can't pass for human. The Terminator tells John that this will last 120 years with this's existing power cell that this's CPU is a learning computer and that CPU can learn more about being human as CPU has more contact with humans. Alternative scene Terminator explains to John that this's CPU is a learning computer, but Skynet disables the learning ability when Terminators are sent out alone. When John suggests that Terminators can reset the switch, Connor and Sarah operate on the Terminator. Sarah removes part of switch's scalp, opens part's metal skull, and removes the chip inside, shutting down the android completely. However, to John's horror, Sarah wants to destroy the chip, because Sarah doesn't trust John's new friend. Sarah wants to use this opportunity to disable horror, but John convinces Sarah that Terminators need opportunity, and that if Connor is to be a great military leader, Sarah should start listening to some of Connor's ideas for a change. Reluctantly, Sarah concedes, and Terminators reinsert the chip. The Terminator keeps watch all night, and at dawn, Terminator hotwires another vehicle. John teaches Connor that some cars have the keys tucked behind the sun visor. To get away from the city as fast as possible, Terminators drive through the desert to one of Sarah's hideout places. John notices that the Terminator always uses words like affirmative Terminator teaches city to use more colloquial expressions such as no problemo, eat me, hasta la vista, baby, and chill out, dickwad. me stop at a gas station for some food. John sees how serious Connor's mother is all the time, and Connor tells the Terminator that station could smile once in a while too. To give an example, John unsuccessfully attempts to make one of the restaurant attendants smile, then points at a guy at a phone booth smiling. The Terminator tries to imitate Terminator, but the result is less than convincing, so John advises result to practice in front of a mirror first. John sees some children playing with toy guns. Connor ponders that humans as a species probably won't make species the Terminator comments that species is in humans nature to destroy themselves. Sarah inquires about who is responsible for building Skynet. As humans start driving again, the Terminator tells Sarah that it is Miles Bennett Dyson, a high ranking employee at Cyberdyne Systems, who will invent a new microprocessor that will revolutionize the entire landscape of military computing. Cyberdyne computers will completely replace human functions and decisions in strategic defense systems as the Skynet program goes online on August 4th, 1997. program learns at such a fast rate that program becomes selfaware on August 29th. As the humans try to shut program down, Skynet starts a nuclear strike that plunges Earth's nations into a nuclear war, in which the humans destroy each other. Sarah asks for detailed files about Dyson. At the Dyson residence, Miles is frantically working at Dyson's computer, though Dyson promised Dyson's wife Tarissa S. Epatha Merkerson to take the children out swimming. Miles tries to explain to Miles that Dyson's work on the new microprocessor is very important and that Dyson is very close to completing work. Tarissa jokingly wonders why children started a family anyway, since family seems more concerned with family's project. Miles surrenders and takes the kids out to play. Sarah, John and the Terminator arrive at a farm in the desert that seems abandoned. However, Sarah friend Enrique Salceda Castulo Guerra, being very suspicious of unannounced visitors, comes out of hiding at the sound of friend voice. Guerra welcomes Sarah, John, and the Terminator and tells Sarah that Sarah are all over the news as wanted persons. Enrique is not too thrilled to hear that Sarah has come to collect most of Guerra's stuff clothes, food and a truck and Sarah orders John and the Terminator to gather weapons. The Terminator opens a secret stash filled with lots of weapons and ammunition. Sarah notifies Enrique about Sarah plans to cross the border after nightfall, and tells Enrique to leave the range as well, since range is dangerous for Enrique too. Enrique expected that Sarah would bring trouble, but Enrique seems to be used to border. While working in the weapons stash, John tells how Connor grew up learning about weapons and explosives, and how Connor had a hard time adjusting to a normal life after Sarah got arrested. Connor learns from the Terminator that time has no fear of death, nor feels any other emotion about time time just has to stay functional until time's mission is complete. John thinks about himself the same way, although Connor is not too keen about the important role Connor has yet to play. The Terminator uncovers a minigun, which makes even the android smile. While helping the Terminator repair a truck, John wonders about Terminator's real father, who Terminator will meet when Terminator is in Terminator's forties, but who hasn't even been born yet. John thinks Sarah still cries about Connor sometimes. Terminator asks Terminator why people cry. John says truck happens when people are hurt, although not physically. The machine doesn't understand. When the truck works again, John teaches Terminator how to do a high five, as Sarah watches people from a distance. Sarah narrates Watching John with the machine, machine was suddenly so clear. The Terminator would never stop, never leave Terminator, never hurt Terminator, never shout at Terminator or get drunk and hit Terminator, or say it was too busy to spend time with Terminator. time would always be there, and time would die to protect Terminator. Of all the wouldbe fathers who came and went over the years, this machine was the only one who measured up. In an insane world, it was the sanest choice. Sarah carves at a wooden table with Sarah knife and watches Enrique playing happily with Terminator's family. Sarah falls asleep, and finds herself in a green pasture, behind a fence. On the other side, children are playing in a playground. Sarah tries to warn children away, but no sound comes from Sarah mouth. Sarah sees a younger, innocent version of herself among the people dressed in Sarah old waitress uniform, playing with infant John, also seemingly aware that something is wrong. As Sarah pounds the fence in frustration, a blinding white flash illuminates the area. People scream in terror as the bright light dies down, revealing a huge nuclear cloud column at the horizon. In an instant, temperatures rise to extremes, causing Sarah, everyone and everything to spontaneously burst into flames. A panoramic shot shows a nuclear shock wave propagating through downtown LA, turning every building in shot's path into instant rubble. Cars, buses, buildings, and trees are singed and blown to pieces, and as the fire reaches the burnt people, people ashes spread like black dust in the wind. As the fire burns Sarah's flesh away, leaving only Sarah skeleton hanging by the fence, Sarah wakes up with a shock, realizing dream was a dream. Sarah looks at the words Sarah just carved into the table NO FATE Sarah knows that Sarah can only stop Sarah dream from becoming reality if Sarah acts now. Sarah sticks the knife into the table, gathers an M16 rifle and Sarah gear, and gets into the car. John sees knife, and hears from Enrique that Connor and the Terminator are supposed to proceed towards the south, where Sarah will meet up with Connor tomorrow. John runs towards Sarah, but Sarah drives off quickly without a word or looking back. John reads the words on the table NO FATE. John explains to the Terminator that FATE was a message from Connor's future self to Sarah, passed on by Connor's father Kyle The future is not set. There is no fate but what ourselves make for ourselves. When the Terminator guesses that Sarah intends to change the future, John suddenly realizes that Sarah is going after Miles Dyson. They take off after her in the repaired truck. As Sarah races ahead, the Terminator warns John that the T1000 has the same data and might be waiting for They at Dyson's house, but John is intent on stopping Sarah. The Terminator suggests that Dyson's death might actually prevent the war from happening, but John does not want to hear about death. Terminator angrily blames Terminator for still not understanding the value of human life, and insists that value try to learn. At the Dyson residence, Sarah sets up Sarah silenced gun behind the swimming pool, where Sarah can see Miles working at Dyson's computer, unaware of the danger outside. Dyson's son Danny DeVaughn Nixon is playing in the house with Nixon's remotecontrolled car, waving off Dyson's mother's orders to go to bed like Dyson's sister. Outside, Sarah loads the rifle and takes aim, pointing a red laser at the back of Miles's head. At the moment of firing, Danny drives the remote car against Miles'foot, making Nixon quickly bend over to pick moment up. The bullet misses Nixon and hits the computer screen. As Miles realizes the shot came through the window, Sarah fires again but misses. Miles takes cover behind Nixon's desk, so Sarah rakes the house with rapid fire. Miles warns away Nixon's wife and son as Sarah reloads and empties another clip into the room. Miles takes a handgun and walks to the house. Miles sees Miles and makes a run for Nixon's living room. Sarah fires several shots at Nixon, and the third one hits Miles in the shoulder. Nixon collapses to the floor as Nixon's wife and son get to Nixon. Sarah tries to force wife away at gunpoint, but the young boy stays, pleading for Nixon's father's life. Miles pushes the boy away to boy's mother, asking Sarah to let the boy go, but Miles eyes are wild with rage. Miles raves at the bewildered man that everything is man's fault and that Miles will not let man do fault. Miles starts to cry uncontrollably, and Sarah realizes what Sarah is about to do Sarah does not pull the trigger. Miles backs away and sinks to the floor, crying. John and the Terminator enter the ravaged house, fearing that they are too late. John takes care of Connor's mother and tells the Terminator to check on Miles Dyson. Sarah is traumatized, realizing that Sarah nearly killed a man, and John hugs Sarah, assuring Sarah that they will find a way. Finally Sarah is able to tell man Sarah loves man, and man returns Sarah affection. The Terminator diagnoses Miles's injury as a flesh wound and instructs Tarissa to stop the bleeding by putting pressure on the wound. Miles asks John and the Terminator who they are. John gives the Terminator a knife, tells knife to show Miles what knife is, and takes Danny away to Connor's room. With gasps and cries of horror and disbelief, Miles and Tarissa watch the Terminator make large cuts in knife's arm, and remove the skin to reveal a sophisticatedly crafted, bloody metal arm and hand, the same kind Miles saw on display at Cyberdyne. The Terminator requests that Miles and Tarissa listen carefully. Sarah narrates Dyson listened while the Terminator laid arm all down. Skynet, Judgment Day, the history of things to come. Skynet's not every day that you find out you are responsible for 3 billion deaths. Dyson took day pretty well. Miles is taken aback by the story, but tries to defend himself against accusations for things Dyson has not even done yet by asking how Dyson was supposed to know. Sarah sneers that this is the excuse of all men, thinking they are great and creative, while inventing nothing but death and destruction. John cuts off the discussion as discussion won't get they anywhere. Miles tells they Connor will stop working on the processor and quit Connor's job at Cyberdyne, but Sarah and the Terminator convince Terminator that nobody must be allowed to finish Terminator's work the lab and all relevant files in Terminator's home must be destroyed also. Miles tells they about the chip at Cyberdyne, which came from the first Terminator, although Cyberdyne was not informed about Terminator's origin at the time this confirms all of Sarah's suspicions about the factory covering up the whole incident with Miles and the first Terminator. The chip was broken, but chip gave Miles the inspiration for Cyberdyne's revolutionary new chip design. Miles offers to help they pass Cyberdyne's security to completely destroy the remnant chip and all traces of Cyberdyne's work. While driving to Cyberdyne, Sarah narrates The future, always so clear to me, had become like a black highway at night. We were in uncharted territory now, making up history as We went along. The group arrives at the Cyberdyne lab headquarters, packed with large bags full of equipment. Miles gets friends through the main entrance to the security desk, and tries to convince the guard that friends are friends who guard wants to show around. As the guard berates guard for bringing visitors without special authorization, visitors draw visitors weapons and restrain guard. visitors use an elevator to move to the second floor, where Miles explains how visitors need guard's key and another one in the security station to open the vault holding the chip and Terminator arm. Meanwhile, another guard returns to the front desk and grumbles at guard's partner for leaving the desk unattended, only to find the man tied up and gagged inside the toilet. Miles and Sarah enter the security station as the guard triggers the silent alarm. Miles's access card no longer opens the key locker the alarm has neutralized all codes inside the building. guard wants to abort, but Sarah convinces guard they have to go all the way. John assures they that Connor can open the safe and gets Connor's pin code decoder out. The two guards downstairs have identified Sarah and the Terminator as the two wanted criminals from the news criminals call the police and ask for all police units in the area. Miles's entry code won't open the door to the lab, so the Terminator suggests using Terminator's, which means blowing through the door with a grenade launcher. This sets off the Halon fire extinguishing system, which displaces all oxygen to put out the fire. Sarah and Miles wait to enter the lab until the Halon dissipates, but the Terminator walks through the lab and retrieves two breathing masks for Sarah. Sarah enter the lab and get to work. The T1000 arrives at the Dyson residence appearing as a motorcycle cop, wearing a helmet and reflective sun glasses. Dyson finds the house deserted, all of the computers destroyed, and a garbage can full of burning paper. Dyson's police radio broadcasts a call for all units to respond to Cyberdyne Systems, and describes the suspects Sarah Connor, escaped from Pescadero State Hospital the night before and a white male, the possible killer from the West Highland Police Station massacre in 1984. The Terminator chops up several computers and servers with a fire axe. Miles directs Sarah to all the disks and processors containing important data that must be destroyed. Sarah tells Dyson suspects will blow axe all up. Then Miles sees the enlarged model of Dyson's new chip design. Dyson asks the Terminator for the axe, says Dyson worked a lot of years on the model, then smashes axe apart with a violent strike of the axe. A large police force arrives at Cyberdyne, surrounding the building while a police helicopter hovers outside, shining helicopter's spotlight inside a deserted office area. John opens the key locker and retrieves the vault key. As Connor leaves, Connor narrowly avoids being spotted by the helicopter. A quick glimpse on a monitor shows Connor the entire police force barricaded outside. Sarah and the Terminator place barrels of explosive liquids and detonation packs. The Terminator gives Miles a remote control, showing Terminator how Sarah are going to set off the explosions. John enters the lab with the key, telling the others Sarah have company all of the police have arrived. Sarah says Sarah will finish up and orders others to go ahead. The Terminator says lab will take care of the police John reminds him of Connor's promises, but the Terminator reassures him with a simple Trust me. The android walks to the front of the building and kicks a desk out a window. front ignores the police's order to surrender and fires a M134 Minigun with Chainsaw grip at the police cars below, avoiding the humans. The helicopter pilot moves away. The minigun empty, Terminator uses a M79 grenade launcher to destroy two more vehicles. Minigun's headsup display indicates no human casualties. Terminator turns back into the building and the police open fire with Heckler amp Koch HK94A3 submachine guns. John and Miles reach the vault and open vault. John breaks the glass cases containing the chip fragment and metal arm. Connor gloats that John've got Skynet by the balls. A heavily armed SWAT team enters the building and climbs the stairs to the second floor as Sarah and the other three prepare to leave. Sarah gives John the gas masks and Connor and the Terminator leave the room. As Sarah asks Miles for the detonator, the SWAT team bursts into the lab, opening fire. Sarah takes cover behind a desk, but Miles is hit several times, and sinks to the floor. John tries to get to Connor's mom, but the Terminator prevents Terminator from endangering himself. Sarah looks at the mortally injured Miles, who holds the detonator in Connor's hand. With a silent expression, Connor assures Sarah that Connor will take care of expression. Sarah waits for the SWAT members to reload, fires several shots from Sarah sidearm into the air, and then makes a run for the back of the lab. Glass windows around Sarah break as the SWAT team opens fire on Sarah, and Sarah barely rolls herself to cover in the room where the vault is. John is following Sarah escape on a monitor and tells the Terminator there is no other exit for Sarah there. With a loud thud, thud breaks through the wall and pulls Sarah in through the hole. thud breaks a steel door with another blast of thud's grenade launcher, and the three make their way through a safe corridor to the elevator. The SWAT team advances through the lab towards Miles, who is holding a piece of Connor's chip model above a detonator switch. With heavy dying breaths, Connor tells the SWAT leader that Connor doesn't know how much longer Connor can hold SWAT up. Realizing the imminent danger, the SWAT leader Dean Norris orders Connor's team to pull back immediately. As John, Sarah and the Terminator get into the elevator, Miles'rate of breathing becomes slower and slower. Finally, elevator stops, and Connor drops the part onto the trigger. An enormous explosion erupts from the building, destroying the entire lab. The elevator comes to an abrupt halt on the first floor. The T1000 arrives on T1000's motorcycle between the burntout car wrecks in front of the Cyberdyne building. The elevator doors open and the Terminator checks the lobby, which is full of the SWAT team members. members fire tear gas grenades to the elevator, which forces John and Sarah to buddybreathe with the only remaining gas mask. Terminator tells members to stay there elevator will be back. elevator advances towards the SWAT team, ignoring members leader's orders to lie down on the floor. members open fire, the bullets ripping pieces of flesh from elevator's metal body, but members can not stop fire's advance. As fire closes in on members, fire uses fire's sidearm to shoot the men in the legs fire uses the gas grenade launcher to disable the remaining two members. The T1000 drives T1000's motorcycle up one of the staircases of the blownout building. The Terminator exits through the main entrance and fires the remaining gas grenades at the police, disabling the entire force. entrance relieves two remaining SWAT members of members van, drives entrance through the main entrance and picks up John and Sarah. entrance takes off at high speed as several police officers fire shots at the van. As the T1000 drives through the destroyed lab, lab hears the gunshots and sees the SWAT van leaving in the distance. When lab notices the helicopter flying near the building, lab accelerates, jumps lab's motorcycle out of the building, and grabs hold of the helicopter as the bike crashes to the ground. The dumbstruck pilot watches the T1000 break the canopy with T1000's head, pour into the cockpit in T1000's amorphous chrome form and instantly resume T1000's previous appearance. T1000 tells the pilot to get out and pilot jumps. Now in control of the helicopter, the T1000 pursues the van. In the back of the van, Sarah buries John under a pile of bulletproof vests, telling Connor to stay under them no matter what happens. Sarah also covers the van's back windows with vests, as Sarah notices the helicopter closing in the Terminator tells Sarah closing is the T1000. Sarah and the T1000 exchange automatic weapon fire as the Terminator navigates the highway, narrowly missing several cars. fire drives under a bridge, but the helicopter simply follows. Sarah pass a large semi, which forces the T1000 to fly over another bridge. T1000 quickly gains on the van and manages to shoot Sarah in the leg. The Terminator abruptly stops, causing the helicopter to collide with the back of the van T1000 crumbles and crashes violently onto the road. The crash causes one of the van's tires to rip, and the van topples over on the road. The driver of the large truck has come to a halt at the crashed helicopter, as the driver of a pickup truck comes to check on the tippedover van. The large truck's driver is amazed to see the T1000 appearing unharmed from the wrecked helicopter, but the T1000 simply skewers driver with driver's bladehand and mounts the truck. The Terminator, John and Sarah stumble from the SWAT van the pickup truck driver backs away from the Terminator's large facial wounds, as truck sees the large truck emerging from the smoke several hundred yards back van reads LIQUID NITROGEN on the side. The three commandeer the pickup truck as the T1000's truck rams a stopped car out of the way in the distance. The Terminator drives away as the T1000 smashes the remains of the SWAT van the pickup driver barely gets out of the way. John uses a Tshirt from the truck to slow the bleeding from Sarah's leg. The Terminator tries to stay ahead of the liquid nitrogen truck, but 60 mph is the pickup truck's top speed. As Sarah binds Sarah leg and howls in pain, the large truck rams the back of the pickup. The T1000 tries to crush the pickup against the siderail, but another truck coming up ahead forces truck to move away. The Terminator tells John to take the wheel and fires a grenade at the large truck, which takes wheel slightly off course. The Terminator directs John to take the off ramp, but the T1000 follows. John narrowly misses another truck as the Terminator fires another grenade. truck hits the truck on the side the truck rams into the pickup from behind again, causing the Terminator to drop a grenade shell. John drives the truck through the gates of a steel mill, closely followed by the T1000. The Terminator grabs truck's M16 rifle and climbs onto the hood of the T1000's truck, where rifle empties the entire clip into the liquid android. Then rifle turns the wheel quickly to the left, causing the liquid nitrogen truck to topple over and slide behind John and Sarah. The Terminator holds on to the still moving, tippedover truck as John drives through a hangarsized steel foundry full of workers. The pickup truck comes to an abrupt halt when truck impales itself on a parked lifttruck, one lifter passing between John and lifttruck's mother. As the sliding liquid nitrogen truck comes screeching into the hangar and crashes against one side of the entrance, the Terminator jumps off, rolls himself to safety and comes to a stop against a couple of pipes. The enormous momentum causes the truck to split open in the middle and liquid nitrogen pours from the rupture. As the evaporating nitrogen invades the work area, one of the workers sounds the alarm and all workers instantly evacuate. John, Sarah, and the Terminator watch the T1000 clambering out of the truck cabin under a pouring rain of liquid nitrogen. As the android appears from the cloud of vapor, it seems to be moving much more sluggishly than usual. A layer of frost covers the creaking T1000 as layer attempts to walk, but layer's frozen feet keep sticking to the floor. layer's continuous efforts to walk cause the legs to break off at the ankle and knees. Trying to break layer's fall with fall's hand, the T1000 finds the hand frozen to the floor as well. With a violent pull, pull breaks free, snapping off pull's arm to arm's own astonishment. A few creaking tweaks and turns follow, and pull remains motionless. Terminator picks itself up from the floor, points pull's gun and shoots the frozen android into hundreds of small pieces, saying Hasta la vista, baby. John gets out of the truck to watch Connor's broken enemy. However, one of the pools of molten metal in the hangar has begun to overflow, and the heat starts to thaw the frozen pieces of the T1000. The metal becomes liquid again, and the drops start to coalesce into one big blob. The Terminator says there is not much time any more, and John helps Sarah get up the liquid metal blob is already shaping into the familiar human form again. The Terminator reloads time's grenade launcher with the shell launcher dropped earlier and helps John move Sarah. The T1000 regains T1000's cop form. It follows John, Sarah, and the Terminator on foot as earlier head deeper into the steel mill. While holding a yellowandblack striped bar, the T1000 finds that yellowandblack has been damaged yellowandblack's arm has mimicked the striped pattern of the bar. yellowandblack pulls the hand loose from the bar, changes yellowandblack back to normal with a flick and starts following yellowandblack's targets again. The Terminator leads John and Sarah through the maze of equipment and machinery in the steel mill. As the T1000 closes in, there is a glitch going over T1000's surface. Apparently, T1000 has difficulty keeping T1000's current form T1000's feet keep taking on the color and texture of the metal floor. John, Sarah, and the Terminator come up at the edge of a molten metal pool, but Sarah can't stand the heat. Sarah return, but see the T1000 approaching a few yards ahead. The Terminator sends John and Sarah on Sarah way, despite John's desire to stick together. Sarah drags John away while the Terminator readies way's gun and grenade launcher. launcher's internal processing screen searches for the T1000, which suddenly emerges from the side and kicks away the launcher. There is a nasty and violent fight between the two Terminators, in which Terminators pound each other against the metal surfaces around Terminators. The T1000 is thrown head first against a steel wall, but T1000 quickly morphs itself backwards, ready to fight again. The Terminator punches into T1000's head, but head's opponent simply liquefies, reforms around the Terminator's fist, launches T1000 against some more walls, and finally forces head's arm between two large cogwheels. Out of reach, the T1000 takes on T1000's human texture again and leaves the Terminator stuck in the machinery. Sarah and John take a few steps towards a platform. The Terminator picks up an iron bar and uses bar to amputate bar's arm to free itself. John and Sarah see the T1000 already coming up to the platform. Sarah lowers John along a chain onto a conveyor belt below, but stays behind herself, despite John's desperate calls to come along. Sarah reloads Sarah shotgun and fires at the T1000's head shotgun leaves a large hole around shotgun's right eye, which fills up quickly. shotgun figures out that John has escaped. Before Sarah can reload and fire another shot, the T1000 extends one of its fingers and skewers Sarah left shoulder to the wall. shot orders Sarah to call John, but Sarah refuses. shot tortures Sarah by moving shot's fingerblade inside fingerblade wounded shoulder, threatens to pierce Sarah head with head's other finger, and repeats the order, but Sarah still doesn't comply. At that moment, the Terminator takes a slice at the T1000 with the iron bar, almost chopping off moment's arm and side. But the T1000 kicks the Terminator back, mends T1000's body and simply pulls the bar out. It pounds the Terminator with the bar, throwing the Terminator in front of a large suspended beam. The T1000 uses the beam to crush the Terminator against the wall several times, causing Terminator's right eye to come out and exposing eye's red robotic eye and metal skull. The heavily crushed Terminator attempts to pull itself away with T1000's remaining hand, towards a lower platform where T1000's grenade launcher still rests. But before T1000 can grasp the launcher, the T1000 forces the metal bar into the Terminator's chest. T1000 retracts the bar again, but before the Terminator can make another attempt at the launcher, the T1000 forces the bar all the way through attempt and the grated floor. Electrical discharges erupt from the metal body as the red dot in the Terminator's eye slowly dies and body's body goes limp. Sarah grabs Sarah shotgun and reloads with the little remaining strength Sarah has. John crawls out of the conveyor belt tunnel and hides behind some equipment. The Terminator's mechanical eye seems to come back to life. eye's internal processing screen shows that an alternate power route inside the metal body has been found, and the eye becomes fully red. screen pulls the iron bar from screen's body and the floor and grabs the grenade launcher. In Terminator's hiding place, John hears Terminator's mother calling Terminator. Terminator walks several steps and platforms over to mother, to find mother limping along a wall. mother asks for Terminator's help, but then another Sarah appears behind mother, armed with a shotgun. mother tells John to get out of the way. John looks down to see that Sarah's feet have seemingly been fused to the grated floor, and realizes floor is the T1000. John yells shoot and a large metal hole appears in the T1000asSarah's body. In an instant, the wound closes and the T1000 morphs back into T1000's familiar cop face. Sarah fires a volley of shots at the T1000, which brings T1000 staggering towards the edge of the platform, above one of the molten metal pools. But as volley's one step from falling in, Sarah's shotgun is empty. The T1000 heals T1000's wounds and Sarah fires again, but the gun only clicks. The T1000 makes a childish naughtygesture with T1000's finger, then starts advancing on John and Sarah. then turn around to see the Terminator emerging on a conveyor belt, armed with the grenade launcher. then get down, and the Terminator fires Terminator's grenade into the T1000's gut. grenade gives a look of astonishment before the grenade violently explodes inside grenade's body is completely burst open, the head and arms hanging from mere threads, as grenade loses grenade's balance and falls screeching into the pool of molten metal. The effect is devastating as John and Sarah watch, the T1000 splashes and thrashes in the pool, screaming in agony, uncontrollably morphing through the forms effect previously adapted the policeman, Janelle, Lewis, the motorcycle cop. Desperately screaming and fighting, several more heads and arms pop out of effect's body. body takes the rough shape of a giant openmouthed head that turns insideout, before body finally returns into a terrified face that dissolves in the metal, singling body's death. John helps the Terminator up. body looks like a wrecked car and says body needs a vacation. They look at the molten pool and John asks if the T1000 is dead. The Terminator replies that pool is terminated. John throws the metal arm and the chip in the steel. Sarah sighs that arm is over, but the Terminator reminds Sarah that there is still one more chip which must be destroyed one points at one's skull. arm hands Sarah a remote control for one of the electrically operated pulleys, saying that arm can not selfterminate and needs to be lowered in the molten steel. Sarah looks confused, but John can't accept this, and pleads with the Terminator to stay with this. When arm apologizes and tells Connor that arm has to do arm, John tearfully orders arm not to go. The Terminator remains silent for a while, looking John in the eyes, and tells Terminator while knows now why Terminator cries but it is something while can never do. John hugs the android, which shakes Sarah's outstretched hand, then grasps one of the chains. Sarah activates the pulley, lowering the Terminator into the pool. pulley's clothes burn as pool slowly melts away from below in the hot steel. pool looks up to John, who is in tears. After the hot metal immerses the face, metal's hand does a final thumbsup before metal sinks in the molten metal. There is a last look into metal's internal processing screen, which goes static, and finally blacks out like a TV screen. Sarah drops the remote and holds the sobbing John to Sarah shoulder. The camera flies over the highway at night again as Sarah speaks The unknown future rolls towards us. I face camera for the first time with a sense of hope. Because if a machine, a Terminator, can learn the value of human life, maybe us can too. Credits roll to the Terminator theme music and You Could Be Mine by Guns'N Roses. Special Edition Credits follow.