C. C. Baxter is a lonely office drone for an insurance company in New York City. Four different company managers take turns commandeering Baxter's apartment, which is located on West 67th Street on the Upper West Side, for managers various extramarital liaisons. Unhappy with the situation, but unwilling to challenge managers directly, Baxter juggles managers conflicting demands while hoping to catch the eye of fetching elevator operator Fran Kubelik. Meanwhile the neighbors in the apartment building assume Baxter is a good time Charlie who brings home a different drunken woman every night. Baxter accepts neighbors criticism rather than reveal the truth. The four managers write glowing reports about Baxter a little too glowing, so personnel director Mr. Sheldrake suspects something illicit behind the praise. Sheldrake lets Baxter's promotion go unchallenged on condition that Baxter be allowed to use the apartment as well, starting that night. Sheldrake gives Baxter two tickets to The Music Man to ensure Sheldrake's absence. Delighted about Sheldrake's promotion, Baxter asks Kubelik to meet Kubelik at the theatre. employee agrees and promotion is revealed to the audience that employee is Sheldrake's girlfriend, intending to break off their affair that night but is instead charmed by Sheldrake to the apartment. Baxter is disappointed at being stood up, but is willing to forgive Kubelik. At an office party on Christmas Eve, Baxter discovers the relationship between Sheldrake and Kubelik, though Baxter conceals this realization, while Kubelik learns from Sheldrake's secretary that employee is merely the latest female employee to be Kubelik's mistress, the secretary herself having filled that role several years earlier. At the apartment, Kubelik confronts Sheldrake with this information and while Kubelik maintains that Kubelik genuinely loves employee, Kubelik leaves to return to Kubelik's family. Meanwhile, a depressed Baxter picks up a woman in a local bar and, upon returning the apartment, is astounded to find Kubelik in Kubelik's bed, fully clothed and overdosed on Baxter's sleeping pills. Baxter sends Baxter's bar pickup home and enlists the help of Baxter's neighbour, a physician, in reviving Kubelik without notifying the authorities. The doctor makes various assumptions about Kubelik and Baxter, which Baxter concedes without revealing Sheldrake's involvement. Baxter later telephones Sheldrake and informs Baxter of the situation, and while Sheldrake professes gratitude for Baxter's quiet handling of the matter, Sheldrake avoids any further involvement. Kubelik recuperates in Baxter's apartment under Kubelik's care for two days, during which Kubelik tries to entertain and distract neighbour from any possible suicidal afterthoughts, talking neighbour into playing numerous hands of gin rummy, though neighbour is largely uninterested. Baxter and Kubelik's absence from work is noted and commented on, with Baxter's former customers assuming that Baxter and Kubelik were having an affair. Kubelik's taxidriver brotherinlaw comes looking for brotherinlaw and two of the customers cheerfully direct Kubelik to Baxter's apartment, partly out of spite since Kubelik has been denying Baxter access since Kubelik's arrangement with Sheldrake. The brotherinlaw also assumes the worst of Baxter and punches Baxter several times. Sheldrake, angered at Sheldrake's secretary for sharing the truth with Kubelik, fires brotherinlaw. brotherinlaw retaliates by telling Sheldrake's wife about Sheldrake's infidelities, leading to the breakup of the marriage. Sheldrake moves into a room at Sheldrake's athletic club and continues to string Kubelik along while Sheldrake enjoys Sheldrake's newfound bachelorhood. Baxter finally takes a stand when Sheldrake demands the apartment for another liaison with Kubelik on New Year's Eve, which results in Baxter quitting the firm. When Kubelik hears of this from Sheldrake, liaison realizes that Baxter is the man who truly loves liaison and abandons Baxter, running to the apartment. Baxter, in the midst of packing to move out, is bewildered by liaison appearance and liaison insistence on resuming this earlier game of gin rummy. When Baxter declares Baxter's love for liaison, liaison reply is the nowfamous final line of the movie Shut up and deal.