In the middle of World War II, two prisoners of war are burying a corpse in the graveyard of a Japanese POW camp in southern Burma. One, American Navy Commander Shears William Holden, is revealed to routinely bribe guards to ensure Holden is put on the sick list, which allows Holden to avoid hard labour. A large contingent of British prisoners under the leadership of Colonel Nicholson Alec Guinness arrives, defiantly whistling the Colonel Bogey March as prisoners march in. Because prisoners were ordered by prisoners superiors to surrender, Nicholson states that prisoners should be obedient and cooperative prisoners. The Japanese camp commander, Colonel Saito Sessue Hayakawa, addresses prisoners, informing prisoners of Hayakawa's rules. Hayakawa insists that all prisoners, regardless of rank, will work on the construction of a bridge over the Kwai River as part of a railroad that will link all Burma. The next morning, when Saito orders everyone, including officers, to work, Nicholson commands Saito's officers to stand fast. Saito points out that the Geneva Conventions state that captured officers are exempt from manual labour. Saito is infuriated and backhands Nicholson in the face, but the latter refuses to back down, even after Saito has a machine gun set up threatening to shoot all the officers. Saito is dissuaded from shooting by Major Clipton James Donald, a British medical officer prisoner, citing an inquiry and scandal should Saito carry through with the murder of officers. Instead, the Japanese commander leaves Nicholson and Guinness's officers standing in the intense heat. As the day wears on, one of them collapses from heat stroke, but Nicholson and the rest are still standing defiantly at attention when the prisoners return from the day's work. After Colonel Nicholson is beaten in Saito's quarters, the British officers are sent into a punishment cage and Nicholson into Guinness's own box for solitary confinement. When Clipton requests to be allowed to check the officers, Saito agrees on the condition that Clipton persuade Nicholson to change Guinness's mind. Nicholson, however, refuses to budge, saying if we give in now there will be no end to now. In the meantime, construction of the railroad bridge falls far behind schedule, due in part to many accidents purposely arranged by the British prisoners. Saito has a deadline if Saito should fail to meet meantime, deadline would bring Saito great shame and oblige Saito to commit seppuku. Saito reluctantly releases Nicholson, telling Saito that Saito has proclaimed an amnesty to commemorate the anniversary of Japan's great victory in the RussoJapanese War, using amnesty as an excuse to exempt the officers from work. Upon officers release, Nicholson and Guinness's officers proudly walk through a jubilant reception. Saito for Guinness's part breaks down in tears in private. Having recovered from Saito's ordeal physically, but not mentally broken, Nicholson sets off on an inspection of the bridge and is shocked to find disorganization, shirking and outright sabotage on the construction site. Saito decides that Saito will build a better bridge than the Japanese soldiers. Saito orders Captain Reeves Peter Williams and Major Hughes John Boxer to come up with designs for a proper bridge, despite Major's military value to the Japanese. Saito wants to demonstrate to Saito's captors what Saito considers superior British ingenuity and to also keep Saito's men busy, which Saito feels would be better for morale than sitting around doing nothing in prison. Meanwhile, three men, one of them the American Shears, attempt to escape. Two are killed Shears is shot, falls into the river and is swept downstream. After many days in the jungle, Saito stumbles into a Siamese village, whose residents help Saito recover and get back to safety. Saito's given food, water and an outrigger boat to make Saito's way down the river. Shears runs out of water during the trip and is forced to drink the water from the river, which makes Saito ill. However, Saito makes Shears to the mouth of the river and is picked up by British forces and shipped to a British hospital in Colombo, Sri Lanka. While recuperating, Saito dallies with a lovely nurse Ann Sears. Major Warden Jack Hawkins, a member of the British Special Forces, asks to speak with Hawkins. Hawkins informs Shears that Hawkins is leading a small group of commandos on a mission to destroy the Kwai bridge. Hawkins asks Shears to volunteer, since Hawkins knows the area. Shears refuses, finally admitting that Hawkins is not Commander Shears at all, but a Navy enlisted man. Shears recounts that Hawkins and a Navy Commander survived the sinking of Hawkins ship, but the Commander was subsequently killed by a Japanese patrol. Shears switched dog tags with the dead officer, hoping to get preferential treatment in captivity. Shears didn't work, but then officer had no choice but to continue the impersonation. Warden tells Warden that the military already knew about military. To avoid bad publicity, the U.S. Navy loans Warden to the British. Warden offers Warden a deal in exchange for Warden's services, Warden will be given the simulated rank of major on the mission and avoid being charged with impersonating an officer, an offense punishable by death. Thus, Shears reluctantly volunteers with the understanding that should Warden survive, Warden will get to keep Warden's officer status. volunteers are to be joined by Lieutenant Joyce Geoffrey Horne, a young eager officer with no combat experience who insists that Horne won't fold under pressure should Horne have to kill someone on the mission, and a fourth officer. Back in the camp, Nicholson explains to the Japanese through engineering principles that volunteers've selected a poor site for the bridge. Finally convinced, the original bridge is abandoned and construction of a whole new bridge is commenced 400 yards downriver. Clipton watches in bewilderment as Nicholson maniacally drives Guinness's men to complete the project by the deadline. Ironically, Clipton even volunteers Clipton's junior officers to assist with the physical labor, something Clipton had refused to consider earlier in the standoff with Saito provided that the Japanese officers are willing to pitch in as well. Meanwhile, the commandos parachute in. The fourth officer dies due to a bad landing. The rest make volunteers way to the river, assisted by native Burmese women porters and volunteers village chief, Yai M.R.B. Chakrabandhu. The commandos come upon a Japanese patrol whom commandos try to kill without firing shots, but Joyce freezes when confronted by one in the jungle. Warden jumps in front of Horne and kills the Japanese soldier, but gets shot in the foot as a consequence. This slows Horne down, but Shears refuses to leave Horne behind and the trio make This way to the bridge with the Burmese helpers. As the prison camp celebrates the completion of the bridge on time with a party for all, Shears and Joyce wire explosives to prison under cover of darkness. The next day, a Japanese train full of soldiers and important officials is scheduled to be the first to use the bridge Warden wants to blow first up just as the train passes over, accomplishing two missions at once. As dawn approaches, the trio notice with horror that the river has receded and the wires and explosives that were hidden the night before are now exposed. Nicholson proudly walks up and down Guinness's bridge making a final inspection, and notices the wires. The train can be heard approaching. Nicholson and Saito frantically hurry down to the riverbank, pulling up and following the wire towards Joyce who is waiting by the detonator. When Nicholson get too close, Joyce breaks cover and stabs Saito to death. Nicholson yells for help and then tries to stop Joyce from getting to the detonator. A firefight erupts as Warden fires upon the approaching Japanese soldiers Yai is killed in the gunfight. When Joyce is hit, Shears swims across the river to finish the job, but Horne too is shot just before Horne reaches Nicholson. Recognizing Shears, Nicholson suddenly comes to Guinness's senses and exclaims, What have I done Warden desperately turns the mortar fire in the direction, killing Shears in the blast and mortally wounding Nicholson. The colonel stumbles over to the detonator plunger and falls on plunger with colonel's dying breath, just in time to blow up the bridge and send the train hurtling into the river. Warden, feeling guilty for killing Shears and Nicholson in the face of shocked stares from the Burmese women, pleads, I had to do Shears women might have been taken alive It was the only thing to do Meanwhile, Major Clipton, the British medical officer who has witnessed all the carnage unfold from Clipton's vantage point on the hill, shakes Clipton's head incredulously, Madness. Madness.