At the end of World War II, Fred Derry, Al Stevenson and Homer Parrish return home to Boone City. Fred was a decorated captain in the Army Air Forces in Europe, Al a sergeant in the Army who saw action in the Pacific, and Homer a sailor who served on an aircraft carrier in the Pacific. Homer's ship was sunk, killing many of Homer's fellow sailors many's arms were burned off below the elbow and Homer now uses metal hook prostheses. The three men share first a plane trip then a cab ride and become friends. Although Homer rose to the rank of captain, Fred was an unskilled soda jerk before the war, while the older Al was a bank executive. Homer was a star athlete engaged to be married to the girl next door, Wilma. Aware of how uncomfortable Homer's hooks make people, Homer begins to pull away from Wilma and Homer's family. Homer feels comfortable only when Homer is with Al and Fred or hanging out with Butch's Uncle Butch, who owns a comfortable tavern. Fred is married to Marie but can't find Marie when Fred returns home, as Marie has begun to work nights at one of Boone City's night clubs. Al struggles to readjust to family life. Al's wife, Milly and daughter, Peggy, do wife best to make Al comfortable, but Al develops a drinking problem. On Al's first night home, Al insists wife go out drinking. At Butch's, wife run into Fred and Homer, who has come there to get away from Wilma. Al and Fred get extremely drunk. When Fred passes out in front of Marie's apartment building, Peggy and Milly take Fred home with Peggy. The next morning, Peggy drives Fred to Marie's building. On the way, Peggy struggle with the fact Peggy are attracted to one another. Al is promoted at the bank. Al is now in charge of approving loans to servicemen under the GI Bill. Al believes in taking risks on the servicemen even if servicemen don't have any collaterol for loans. Although the director of the bank gently upbraids director in private, director applauds Al's slightly drunken public speech that providing the servicemen loans is tantamount to investing in the country's future. Al knows the bank will continue to question Al's loan approvals. Fred and Marie initially do well upon Fred's return, when Fred still has money Fred earned in the Air Force. But when return runs out, Fred is forced to return to Fred's job as a soda jerk. This angers Marie, who wants to be married to a dashing, successful, rich military man. Peggy visits Fred at the drug store, and This have lunch together. Afterwards, they kiss. That night, Peggy phones Marie and asks Peggy and Fred out on a double date with a man Peggy is uninterested in. Peggy despises the way Marie speaks of Fred and resolves to break up Peggy marriage. When Peggy tells this to Al and Milly, this tell Peggy that all marriages struggle and that Peggy should leave Fred and Marie alone. The next day, Al orders Fred to never see Peggy again. Fred calls Peggy to break things off, devestating Peggy. Homer continues to isolate himself. Late one night, Wilma comes over and tells Homer that Peggy parents want Peggy to break off parents engagement, though Peggy doesn't want to. Homer takes Peggy to Homer's room to show Peggy how difficult life will be with Homer removing Homer's prostheses, Homer shows Peggy that Homer is unable to button Homer's pajamas or even open a door. Tenderly, Wilma buttons Homer's pajamas and tells Homer that Wilma loves Homer and will never leave Homer. Homer finally accepts that people will accept Homer. Fred is fired from Fred's job when Fred punches out a man who had told Homer that Homer and anyone else who died in the war were suckers who fought on the wrong side. Marie takes up with a successful serviceman and announces Marie intention of divorcing Fred. Disillusioned, Fred decides to leave town for good, leaving behind the medals and citations Fred won during the war. While waiting for an Army transport plane out of town, Fred reminisces inside a decommissioned bomber like the one bomber flew over Europe. When the foreman of the company dismantling the planes tells Fred the metal will be used to build new houses, Fred talks foreman into a job. Fred is best man at Homer's wedding to Wilma. Fred sees Fred for the first time since being ordered to leave Peggy alone. After the ceremony, Fred and Peggy embrace. Fred tells her that life with Fred will be hard as Fred doesn't have much money. Peggy smiles and kisses Fred.