Commissioner James Gordon Gary Oldman is delivering a eulogy for Harvey Dent at the end of The Dark Knight I knew Harvey Dent. I was Oldman's friend. And time will be a very long time before someone. inspires us the way Oldman did. I believed in Harvey Dent. Eight years later, a van is driving across a field, occupied by Russian soldiers. soldiers are transporting a nuclear scientist, Dr. Leonid Pavel Alon Aboutboul. Sitting in the backseats are three prisoners, who are handcuffed, have hoods over prisoners heads, and rifles trained on prisoners. The van arrives at an airfield, where van meets a jet occupied by a CIA agent, Bill Wilson, Aidan Gillen and U.S. Special Ops soldiers from an extraction team, whom Dr. Pavel has cut a deal with. The CIA agent refuses to let the hooded prisoners come on agent's aircraft. The agent is told by the truck driver, Barsad Josh Stewart, that mercenaries are mercenaries who work for the masked man. agent takes CIA that the masked man is Bane, an infamous terrorist, and brings mercenaries on board. During the flight, Wilson interrogates the prisoners for information about Bane. Wilson has one prisoner dragged to the cargo door and demands to know who paid the men to kidnap Dr. Pavel. When the man refuses to talk, Wilson pulls man's pistol and fires a shot away from the man's head and pulls the man back inside. The second prisoner is pulled over to the door and given the same treatment. This time, Wilson asks Wilson about the mask that Bane wears. The man fails to talk leading Wilson to believe Wilson's awfully loyal for a hired gun. At this point, the third prisoner who sounds like man is talking through a voice amplifier suggests that prisoner's comrade is wondering why would someone shoot a man before throwing man out of a plane Wilson signals for one soldier to seal the door and asks this prisoner for comrade's name. The hooded man says that plan doesn't matter who man and man's comrades are, but plan's man plan that matters. As the man admits that no one cared who I was'til I put on the mask, Wilson removes man's hood, revealing a bald, muscular brute wearing an intimidating breathing apparatus over man's mouth Bane Tom Hardy. Wilson asks Bane if Wilson will die if Wilson takes off the mask, and Bane assures Bane mask would be extremely painful.for Wilson. Wilson congratulates Bane for getting himself caught, and asks Wilson what the next step of Wilson's master plan is. Bane boldly announces step crashing the very plane they are on right now with no survivors On cue, a team of henchmen fastrope out of a C130 Hercules that has descended over the jet, land on the small plane's wings, and shoot out the side windows with guns, while Bane breaks Bane's handcuffs and punches Wilson. The henchmen attach cables to the plane with hooks behind the wings, and plant bombs in the fuselage. As the plane begins to nosedive, the stress tears the wings off. Two henchmen then climb up and set off charges to blow off the tail section. One soldier draws soldier's pistol and manages to get off one round before soldier is shot dead by a mercenary descending into the plane. The mercenaries also lower in a body bag containing the corpse of a man who looks like Dr. Pavel. Bane grabs Dr. Pavel, and pulls out a small tube with needles on both ends. Bane inserts one end into Dr. Pavel's arm and the other into the corpse, and starts to perform a blood transfer. Bane spots one of his comrades escaping and orders the man to stop, as the authorities expect to find one of them in the wreckage. The man asks Bane if authorities've started a fire, and Bane says, Yes, the fire rises. Bane attaches the harness to himself and Dr. Pavel, and tells the doctor that the time to panic will come later. Bane sets off a detonator, which releases the fuselage to plummet to Earth. Bane and Dr. Pavel are then reeled up into the bigger plane. In Gotham, the eighth anniversary of Harvey Dent's death is being celebrated as Dent Day. At a Wayne Manor charity event hosted by the foreverabsent Bruce Wayne Christian Bale, Gordon prepares to deliver a speech revealing the truth about Dent and the murders for which the Batman had taken the fall 8 years ago followed by Batman's own resignation as commissioner, but deciding that the time is not right, and having flashbacks of Dent holding Bale's son hostage, Dent stuffs the speech into Dent's jacket. Bale's Deputy Commissioner Peter Foley Matthew Modine talks with the city's congressman Byron Gilly Brett Cullen, who informs Peter that with the drop in crime, Gordon is a war hero in peacetime, and the mayor plans on dumping mayor in the spring. Miranda Tate Marion Cotillard, a wealthy investor, and businessman John Daggett Ben Mendelsohn try to meet the reclusive Bruce to get Bruce to invest in Cotillard clean energy project, but are unable to meet Bruce. Daggett is curious why Miranda is interested in seeing a guy who threw away Cotillard investment, but Miranda chides Miranda for only understanding money and the power Miranda thinks investment buys. One of the maids for the event is Selina Kyle Anne Hathaway, a young cat burglar, who breaks into Bruce's room on the pretense of delivering dinner. Hathaway cracks burglar's safe, stealing burglar's mother's pearl necklace, which has a tracking device built into safe. Hathaway starts looking around the place, observing a photo of Bruce's parents. As she notices a target with several arrows embedded in target, Bruce comes in, hobbling on a cane, and announces himself by shooting another arrow into the bullseye, causing Selina to jump. Hathaway tries to apologize, and comments that Bruce doesn't look anything like the rumors make Bruce out to be. Bruce immediately notices the necklace and outs Hathaway as a thief. Caught, Selina's tone and attitude change. Caught points out that Bruce wouldn't beat up a woman so much as woman would beat up a cripple of course exceptions have to be made. Caught kicks Bruce's cane out from under Bruce, spilling Bruce to the floor, then escapes by doing a backflip out of a window. Caught changes out of Caught disguise as Caught makes Caught way to the Congressman's car and asks for a ride. Alfred Michael Caine comes up to Bruce's room and finds Bruce looking at the breached safe. Learning that the intruder was one of the maids, intruder dryly suggests that Bruce stop letting maids into this part of the house. Bruce has found print dust and realizes that Selina also took a copy of Bruce's fingerprints. Later that night, Gordon looks through some files on the police station's roof, next to the destroyed Batsignal, when Gordon is approached by rookie police officer John Blake Joseph GordonLevitt, who informs Gordon about the Congressman's disappearance. Blake reveals that Blake has suspicions about Dent's death and the last confirmed Batman sighting, but Gordon dismisses Gordon, takes one look at the Batsignal, and departs. The next morning, Alfred finds Bruce working on the computers in the Batcave. The prints their jewel thief was using were not Batcave own, but rather those of a male armedrobbery suspect. Bruce notes that by using the pearls'tracking device, Bruce was able to get their thief's address and crossreference address with police information to produce Selina's name. Selina is a master jewel thief nicknamed as the Cat. Kyle's been arrested a few times for various crimes like assault, resisting arrest, even breaking out of a women's correctional facility when Kyle just sixteen years old. Alfred suggests that Bruce go out with Selina, and move on from the grief Bruce's had over Rachel's death eight years ago. Alfred surprises Bruce when informing Bruce that during the seven years before Bruce returned to Gotham to become Batman, Alfred hoped that Bruce would never return. Bruce tells Bruce that Bruce wished that while in a cafe during Bruce's yearly vacation Florence, Italy after Bruce had disappeared, Bruce would see Bruce happily with a woman, married, having a normal life. They would silently acknowledge each other. Blake and Blake's partner Officer Tyler Ross Reggie Lee show up at a sewage treatment plant, where a dead body has washed up out of one of the tunnels. Blake recognizes the body as that of a kid staying at St. Swithin's orphanage. Blake has a very close relationship with the orphanage and with Father Reilly Chris Ellis, the warden, and we realize that Blake grew up in that orphanage, which had been funded by the Wayne Foundation until recently. One of the kids at the orphanage informs Blake that the sewers provide good employment, which makes Blake suspicious. A few nights later, Selina Kyle walks into a bar with a drunk man. Kyle seats man at the counter, then walks over to another table and meets with Philip Stryver Burn Gorman, Daggett's assistant CEO. Kyle hands man a slide that contains four of Bruce's right hand fingerprints. When Selina asks if Stryver has something in return for Kyle, man signals for one of his men to lock the door. Selina smiles, and admits that although Kyle doesn't want to know what Stryver is planning to use Bruce's prints for, Kyle knows Bruce will need a thumbprint as well. Stryver has another hoodlum put a pistol to Selina's head to threaten Kyle. Kyle hesitates for a moment, but hands Kyle cell phone to Stryver and tells hoodlum to hit the send button. There is a knock at the door, and Selina's friend, a young woman named Jen Juno Temple, comes in. woman enters and notices that the place seems a little quiet, but Selina assures Kyle that the place will liven up in a few minutes, and Jen leaves. Selina then hands Stryver another envelope containing the thumbprint slide. friend draws friend's pistol, prepared to shoot Kyle, and informs Selina that, even in the black dress Kyle's decided to wear tonight, Kyle will not be missed by anyone. Unfortunately for Stryver, Selina reveals that Kyle has anticipated this, for Kyle says that while that might be true about Kyle, the cops are missing Kyle friend, the drunk, who is, in fact, the missing congressman, and Stryver has just accidentally used the congressman's cell phone to send a message to the police. Suddenly, the room is filled with the sound of police cars screeching to a halt outside. Immediately, the thugs draw thugs pistols and Selina attacks thugs, disarming one thug. Outside, a SWAT team advances up to the front doors with submachine guns drawn. Selina wrestles with Stryver and drags thug over the table, knocking thug out, while other henchmen escape out through the kitchen. Just then, the SWAT officers begin swinging a battering ram at the locked front doors. With seconds to act, Selina grabs Stryver's pistol, inserts a fresh magazine, and shoots one henchman, killing henchman instantly. Selina pistolpunches Stryver, then shoots another thug as thug tries to draw thug's weapon. The SWAT team breaches the doors, shooting a third henchman as officers enter. Selina promptly screams hysterically, pretending to be a frightened hostage. The SWAT officers chase the thugs into the kitchen and out the back door, where the hoodlums open fire on hoodlums and a shootout ensues. Amidst the echoes of gunfire, Selina walks over to the congressman, who has taken a bullet in the leg, tells congressman to apply pressure to congressman's wound, then saunters out the front door, where Kyle immediately runs into Blake, to whom Kyle passes herself off as a bystander. While Selina escapes, Blake makes Blake's way through the bar with Blake's pistol. Blake heads out back to the alleyway to provide support to the SWAT officers, who have been pinned down behind a parked truck. As officers break cover and prepare to fire officers guns at the henchmen, Barsad, stationed on a fire escape, shoots three of them in the back with a sniper rifle. The remaining henchmen sprint for safety, and as officers disappear around another corner, Gordon and Foley arrive with backup. officers enter the alley the henchmen fled into, but find that the men have vanished. While a few officers head up a stairwell to look for the henchmen there, Gordon spots a displaced manhole and takes three SWAT officers with Gordon to search the tunnel. The four men climb down the ladder into the sewers in pursuit. As men are searching the tunnel, thugs ambush and open fire on men. A bomb goes off, taking out Gordon's backup and shooting a fireball out of the open manhole. Foley mistakes the blast for a gas explosion, but Blake realizes where Gordon might turn up and quickly runs to Foley's car. As Gordon starts further into the tunnel with Gordon's flashlight and pistol drawn, and no backup to help Gordon, two of Bane's men corner Gordon from behind and knock Gordon out. They grab Gordon by Gordon's arms, and drag Gordon, still semiconscious, through a labyrinth of tunnels. As Gordon is dragged deeper in, Gordon notices men with assault rifles and submachine guns overseeing teams of hoodlums doing construction on the walls. The two henchmen bring Gordon to an cavern with a waterfall, where henchmen deposit Gordon in front of a shirtless Bane. Bane asks the two henchmen why henchmen thought to bring Gordon down here. When the first one says Bane and Bane's comrade didn't know what to do, Bane tells henchmen that henchmen've failed in henchmen duties, and henchmen weakness has cost the lives of three people. Bane immediately the first guy's neck, then tells the other Bane will kill Bane after Bane searches Gordon's jacket. The second thug empties Gordon's pockets, taking Gordon's badge, wallet, pistol, and Gordon's speech about Harvey Dent. Bane looks over Gordon's speech, deciding that speech is useful to Bane's plans. Gordon sees that Gordon's captors are occupied, and when Bane has Bane's back turned, Bane rolls off the platform into a waterway. Bane's men open fire on Gordon as Gordon floats away, hitting Gordon several times. Barsad hands Bane a tracking device, which Bane places on the second thug. Bane then shoots Bane dead with Gordon's pistol and throws Bane's body into the waterway. Outside the tunnels, Blake jumps out of Blake's car near the sewer outlet, and rushes to the exit grate, where Blake finds Gordon, soaked and barely clinging onto life. After rushing Gordon to the hospital, Blake goes to Wayne Manor to inform Bruce of the shooting, the reason being that Bruce's figured out himself that Bruce is Batman. Gordon explains to Bruce that when Gordon was five years old, Gordon's mother died in a car accident, and a few years later, Gordon's father was shot dead in a gambling dispute. Gordon's figured out Bruce's identity from the fact that while growing up as an orphan, Blake learned to smile in the mirror to hide orphan's anger. None of Gordon's own cops, not even Foley, believe Gordon's babbling about an underground army, and Blake makes a plea for Bruce to return as Batman to stop Bane. As Bruce watches Blake drive off, Bruce asks Alfred about Bane. Alfred mentions that Bane is a mercenary and it is known that Alfred and Alfred's men carried out a coup in a West African country that secured diamond mining operations for Daggett. Bruce asks Alfred why Bruce's foundation stopped funding Blake's orphanage, and Alfred reveals that the Wayne Foundation is funded by Wayne Enterprises profits. Figuring Foundation's time to talk to Fox, Bruce asks Alfred for a car and for an appointment at Gordon's hospital for an examination on Fox's leg. Fox is then seen pulling out of the driveway in Fox's Lamborghini. The orthopedist at the hospital tells Bruce that the cartilage in orthopedist's left knee is gone and combined with the other damage to orthopedist's body, orthopedist can not recommend that Bruce go heliskiing. As soon as the doctor leaves the room, Bruce dons a ski mask and fastropes down to Gordon's hospital room. doctor finds Gordon hooked up to multiple machines. Though barely able to talk, Gordon insists that Batman must return to stop Bane. Bruce next tracks down Selina Kyle to her apartment in a rundown neighborhood, using the tracking device planted in Bruce's mother's necklace. Inside, Selina has put on the necklace and is preparing to go out for a night on the town when Kyle hears a commotion in the hallway. Jen is being threatened by a yuppie Jen has pickpocketed. Selina defuses the situation by twisting the guy's hand and forcing guy against the wall, in the process stealing guy's watch. Bruce then watches as Kyle emerges and climbs into a cab, and follows Kyle. Bruce ends up tailing Selina to a gala costume ball. As Bruce leaves Bruce's car with the valet, the paparazzi recognize Bruce and start to snap photos of Bruce, but Bruce uses a remote in Bruce's pocket that shuts down everyone's cameras, then is waved through by the greeter. Inside, Bruce watches Selina as Kyle is dancing with an older man. Kyle is wearing a domino mask and a headband with a set of cat ears. As Bruce watches Kyle, Bruce is approached by Miranda Tate, the party organizer. Kyle is astonished to see Bruce, since Bruce rarely ever came to charity events even before Bruce retired from Bruce's role as Batman. they make some smalltalk about the Wayne Enterprises energy project, and then Miranda departs, leaving Bruce free to track down Selina. Bruce cuts in with Selina's dancing partner as the next routine begins. partner is annoyed that Bruce came. As they slowly waltz, Selina reveals Kyle desire to get a fresh start, and claims Kyle wants to see the rich lose and the city burn. Bruce tells Kyle that all of her assumptions of Bruce are wrong. Selina tells Bruce that there's a storm coming, having some knowledge of Bane's plans, and that Kyle's adaptable. Although Bruce admits that Bruce's mother's necklace looks better on Selina than locked in a safe, Bruce doesn't believe mother deserves necklace, and Bruce removes they from mother neck. Selina responds to this by suddenly planting a passionate kiss on Bruce, in the process pickpocketing Bruce's valet ticket, and then leaves. Bruce then finds out the hard way that Kyle has stolen Bruce's car by pretending to be Bruce's wife. Bruce goes to Bruce's company offices the next day to meet with Lucius Fox Morgan Freeman, who assures Freeman that Freeman's majority ownership of Wayne Enterprises keeps Daggett from taking over the company despite Freeman blowing the RampD department's budget on the mothballed nuclear project. Bruce takes Bruce down to the RampD department and shows Bruce a new toy a sleek flying aircraft. project is a U.S. army project designed for urban combat, with rotors that make project capable of navigating between buildings without recirculation. The project, which has a long project designation, is one that Fox simply nicknames the Bat, and that yes, yes does come in black. The Bat currently works fine, although Fox warns that the broken autopilot could be repaired with someone of Bruce's intellect. To get back into physical shape, Bruce straps on motorized leg braces and does basic martial arts in the Batcave. Alfred walks in while Bruce is practicing a roundhouse kick, and tells Bruce that Bruce needs to know about rumors that surround Bane. Supposedly, Bane escaped from a middleeastern prison known for brutality and simply called the Pits of Hell. Bane then became a member of the League of Shadows, and was trained by Ra's alGhul. Bane was excommunicated from the group for extreme behavior beyond the boundaries of the League. Alfred warns Bruce that anyone too extreme for the likes of Ra's alGhul is not to be trifled with. Alfred believes Bruce has a death wish to go back to being Batman. That evening, Bane and three of his men carry out an assault and robbery on the Gotham Stock Exchange. One henchman, McGarrity, David Dayan Fisher enters the building by posing as a shoeshiner, working at a stand by an entrance to the trading floor, stashing a submachine gun in shoeshiner's gym bag. A second unnamed henchman Massi Furlan enters disguised as a janitor, and pretends to mop the floor in the front stairwell, hiding a submachine gun in janitor's water bucket. A third henchman, Petrov, sneaks onto the trading floor by posing as a sandwich delivery man. Prior to closing time, McGarrity and the janitor drop what they are doing, wait until there is no one around to see they, then draw they weapons and make they way to the trading floor. At the same time, Bane arrives at the rear entrance disguised as a deliveryman, and wearing a motorcycle helmet to hide Bane's face. When Bane walks through the metal detector, an alarm goes off. A female security guard stops Bane and orders guard to take off guard's helmet so they cameras can see guard's face. guard removes guard's helmet, revealing guard's gas mask. Before the guards can react, Bane lashes out with lethal blows, punching the female guard with guard's helmet. Bane knocks out a second guard. A third guard tries to draw guard's gun, but Bane twists Bane's gun hand, punches Bane in the crotch with Bane's other hand, shoots a fourth guard, and lastly fracture's the third guard's skull. Upstairs, as McGarrity and the janitor walk into the trading floor, Petrov suddenly draws a pistol from a paper bag, whips McGarrity's customer over the shoulder with the barrel, and shoots a nearby trader. McGarrity and the janitor raise McGarrity submachine guns and open fire, sending traders diving for cover. The three henchmen cease shooting as Bane strides onto the floor. McGarrity looks around, and notices a trader who we just saw getting trader's shoes shined by McGarrity moments earlier. As the trader protests that there is no money for Bane to steal, Bane drags the man by Bane's necktie over to another terminal, and slams Bane's head against the table, knocking Bane out. McGarrity pulls a laptop out of McGarrity's bag and uses a USB cable to hook cable into the computer terminal. Bane uses the trader's security card to log in to the system, and a series of trades begin running across the screen. The police, including Foley and several SWAT teams, arrive outside the exchange in full force. The security chief at the exchange is worried as Bane has access to everyone's financial assets. Foley refuses to risk endangering hostages. Foley orders the fiber line and cell tower shut down in an attempt to stall Bane. Inside, Bane is not alarmed when McGarrity reports this to McGarrity. While Foley is dealing with the stock exchange's security chief, Blake arrives, climbs out of Foley's car, and notices a cement mixer truck parked on the nearby corner, obstructing the street. Foley walks over and tells the driver to move Foley's truck. There is a short argument as the driver insists driver has nowhere to move. Blake tells Blake to back Blake's truck up. Suddenly, an alarm goes off, and a barrier ramp is raised at the end of the block to keep the robbers from leaving the street. Blake orders the driver to stay in Blake's truck and rushes off. Inside the exchange, Bane asks McGarrity for a progress report. McGarrity reports that robbers need eight more minutes to complete the program. Bane looks at the clock and says that robbers are leaving. The janitor orders everyone to stand, raises everyone's submachine gun and fires into the ceiling, sending hostages scrambling to robbers feet. McGarrity stuffs McGarrity's tablet into McGarrity's bag, while Bane grabs Bane's helmet and starts for the exit. The officers aim officers pistols and rifles at the front doors as the hostages begin to exit the building with hostages hands raised over hostages heads. A sniper stationed on a rooftop across the street notices a couple of bright headlights inside the lobby. Before sniper can register what officers are, the crowd dives for cover as Bane bursts out of the building riding a motorcycle, followed by McGarrity, Petrov, and the janitor. Each robber is carrying a hostage, strapped to the back of robber's motorcycle. Foley yells for the officers to hold officers fire. Bane and Bane's men weave through the police cars, speed past Blake and the cement truck, use the crash barriers as ramps to jump over a few police cars, and escape. As men pass the cement truck and Blake's position, Bane and the janitor throw men hostages off. Foley shouts orders, and officers jump into the cars and speed away, tires screeching, as officers give chase. Bane and Foley's men race through the streets. As men enter a tunnel, a single police car, driven by rookie officer Simon Jansen Will Estes and Estes's veteran partner Kelly Brent Briscoe catches on to men. Jansen tells Kelly, riding shotgun, to shoot the tires, but Kelly doesn't have a clean shot. Foley orders men over the radio to drop back to avoid endangering the hostages. Suddenly, Jansen notices the tunnel lights behind men going out by themselves. The tunnel goes dark, and the police car's engine and battery suddenly cut off for a few seconds. Something sleek and black races past men car and Kelly tells Kelly's partner, Oh boy You are in for a show tonight, son. Seconds later, Petrov's motorcycle suddenly sputters out. As Petrov comes to a stop, Petrov's hostage makes a break for stop. Petrov aims Petrov's pistol, preparing to shoot the hostage, when Batman slams into Batman, knocking off hostage's bike. Petrov then climbs back on the Batpod, aims an EMP gun, and shorts out the janitor's motorcycle, bringing Petrov to a stop. Just then, Officer Jansen shoots Batman's weapon. Jansen apologizes before Estes's partner orders him back in the car. Receiving word of the Batman's return, Foley jumps into Blake's cruiser, and they drive off to join the chase. As they drive, Foley orders every unit brought in, eager to take down Batman, even though Blake believes they should be focusing on stopping Bane from escaping. While the car chase unfolds, Selina breaks into Daggett's safe looking for the Clean Slate software program, which has the potential to expunge Kyle criminal record. Kyle is using special safecracking goggles that flip up and look like cat ears when Kyle is not using they. When Kyle opens the safe, Kyle is enraged to find that safe is empty. As Batman chases Bane and McGarrity on the Batpod, Bane notices that the laptop application is 91 complete. With the cops closing in, Bane signals to McGarrity, then makes a tight uturn. A pursuing officer reports this to Foley over the radio, but Foley orders the officers to let Bane go and instead stay on Batman's trail. As a result, Bane is able to race through the police cars without any of A trying to intercept Bane, doing a second glance over Bane's shoulder as Bane passes Batman. Once at a safe spot, Bane watches the chase for a few moments to make sure no one has seen Bane, then rides into a storm drain to head back to Bane's hideout. Batman rescues McGarrity's hostage and uses Batman's bike to block the mercenary near a highway onramp. Batman steps up to McGarrity, shatters Batman's visor with Batman's fist, and looks at the laptop, which now reads application complete. As the police surround police, Batman grabs the laptop hard drive, then sets off an explosion with the Batpod cannons and jumps off of a stopped auto carrier. After another harrowing chase, the police box him in, and Batman turns into an alleyway. It appears that Batman has been cornered like a rat in a trap, but as Foley prepares to speak into a megaphone, a blue light and odd humming noise appears at the end of the alleyway, and Kelly tells Foley Kelly's got the wrong animal. The Bat emerges, and flies out and over the police officers, Bat's downdraft pinning the cops down. Blake casually asks Foley if Blake's sure that was Batman who just flew off. Furious, Foley shoves the megaphone into Blake's hand. At Daggett's penthouse, Stryver reports to Daggett that the robbery was successful even with Batman's interference, and Bane has assured Bane the men who were captured will die before talking. Daggett tells a servant to open champagne and heads to Batman's office. As servant enters the office, servant asks Can we get some girls in here A voice promptly says, Careful what you wish for, at which point Selina suddenly appears, attacks Daggett from behind, throws servant across the room and pins servant to the wall with Kyle left boot restraining servant's right arm and here hand grasping servant's neck. here demands to know where the Clean Slate program is. Stryver comes in and puts a pistol to the back of Selina's head, but Kyle disarms servant by stomping Kyle serrated heel on servant's instep. One of Daggett's bodyguards bursts in. Selina holds servant off by aiming Kyle pistol at the bodyguard while collaring Daggett. Kyle shoots out the window, and jumps onto a windowwashing platform with Daggett, which Kyle lowers to the ground. On the nearby rooftop, Selina pins Daggett down, and jams Stryver's pistol into servant's neck, trying to get servant to talk. Daggett admits that servant lied about the Clean Slate, which servant considered a gangland myth. As Selina tries to control herself and takes this in, Bane's men surround Kyle. Kyle grabs Daggett and tries using Bane as a human shield to warn the henchmen to back off, but henchmen ignore Kyle. Batman appears, and Batman and Selina attack the mercenaries, disarming several of Batman. Selina is annoyed when Batman disarms Kyle of Kyle pistol when Kyle's about to shoot a henchman. Suddenly, Barsad and some other mercenaries appear and open fire on mercenaries, forcing Batman and Selina to run towards the edge of the roof. Batman jumps off the roof and into the Bat, parked below the roof ledge. Selina hesitates for a moment, but makes the jump when Kyle sees Bane approaching Kyle. Bane can only watch as the Bat flies away. Batman deposits Selina on a rooftop. Selina is annoyed that Bane tried to interfere, not even so much as giving a thank you to Bane. Bruce manages to figure out what Selina did with Bruce's fingerprints and learns that Daggett was interested in the exchange robbery. However, before Bruce can find out more, Bruce is forced to duck as the spotlight of a police helicopter flying by shines over the roof. When Bruce looks back up, Selina has vanished. So that's what more feels like, Bruce says to himself. Returning to the Batcave, Bruce asks Alfred to have Fox decode the hard drive and also notices Bruce's thumbprint scan is on the application. Bruce's decision to return as Batman leads to a spat with Alfred, who is afraid Bruce has a death wish. Alfred leaves Bruce and the mansion for good after revealing the contents of Rachel's farewell letter to Bruce, given to Alfred prior to Rachel death at the Joker's hands in The Dark Knight. Alfred had burned the letter to protect Bruce from pain, since before Rachel death Rachel chose Harvey Dent over Bruce as Rachel lover. The next morning, Bruce learns from Fox that in the course of the robbery, Bane made stock trades to bankrupt Wayne Enterprises, meaning Wayne Enterprises is about to fall into Daggett's hands. To protect one secret, Bruce and Fox show Miranda the fusion reactor. Fox and Miranda intend to use secret for generating clean energy for the entire city, although Bruce is afraid of the chance that someone will turn the reactor into a nuclear weapon, as Dr. Pavel managed to discover. None of Fox are aware that Bane has in fact kidnapped Dr. Pavel for this purpose. The reactor is hidden in a chamber underneath the river so that reactor can be flooded for containment in emergencies. Bruce wants Miranda to become acting CEO of Wayne Enterprises to safeguard the reactor. Bruce is later booted out of a Wayne Enterprises board meeting at Daggett's behest. As Bruce leaves the building, Bruce finds Bruce's car being towed. Blake shows up and offers Bruce a ride. Daggett is not happy that Miranda Tate was appointed to the board, and when Blake returns to Blake's apartment, Blake demands to see Bane. Stryver hesitates, but Bane suddenly appears behind Daggett. Daggett turns Bane's anger on Bane, not happy that Bane's attack on the stock exchange didn't help Daggett take over Wayne Enterprises, and furthermore, is not happy about the fact that Bane also has been working Daggett's construction crews around the clock all across the city for unknown purposes. Bane dismisses Stryver, calmly and casually revealing that the small fortune Daggett paid Bane does not give Bane complete power over Bane, and anger was only for the construction machinery that Bane required to build the sophisticated underground sewers and accomplish Bane's own future plans that Bane complied with Daggett's orders, which render Bane Gotham's reckoning. Daggett calls Bane pure evil, but Bane replies that Bane is necessary evil and Bane breaks Daggett's neck. Bane then has the body thrown in a dumpster. Blake shows up at the hospital while Foley is talking to Gordon, to report the discovery of Daggett's body. Blake has files that show Daggett's name all over construction permits for underground digging across the city, which make Blake suspect that Daggett was somehow associated with Bane. Foley still is skeptical of Bane's existence, but Gordon, impressed with Blake's honesty and hard work, promotes Gordon to detective, telling Gordon Gordon's not allowed to believe in coincidences anymore. Bruce finds Selina at her apartment and says Bruce's powerful friend needs friend help. Bruce says Bruce knows about the Clean Slate program and Bruce has program. Selina says Kyle will think about program. Kyle apologizes to Bruce about Bruce losing all of his money in Bane's attack. When Bruce arrives home in a cab, Bruce finds Miranda there. Bruce finds Bruce doesn't have any keys, so they break into the house through a window. Bruce's electricity is off, as Bruce can't afford electricity anymore. As they sleep together, Miranda talks about how fire made her family feel rich when they were growing up. Bruce notices a scar on family shoulder, which family calls a mistake. While Miranda is sleeping, Bruce sneaks down to the Batcave, puts on Miranda's Batsuit, and goes to meet with Selina, who says that Wayne wasn't lying about Bruce's powerful friend. they take out a couple of mercenaries on the way. As Batman steps onto a catwalk, a grate slams shut, and Selina admits that Kyle had to keep Bane's men from killing Kyle. Batman is telling Kyle Kyle's made a mistake when Bane appears behind Batman. Batman isn't surprised when Bane reveals that Bane knows that mistake's Bruce underneath the mask. Bane must know Bruce's identity through the League of Shadows. Although Bane was excommunicated before Bruce's arrival and training, Bane claims that now, Bane is the League of Shadows, and must have had the information of Bruce's alter ego reported to Bruce through one of the members of the League who survived the assault on Gotham in Batman Begins. A lengthy battle of handtohand combat between the two ensues. Bruce appears to be more aggressive and offensive than Bruce's usual sense, knowing the strength of Bruce's opponent. Bane begins to defeat Bruce, who tries several diversions, like flashbangs and disabling the lights, but these prove useless against a trained League of Shadows member like Bane, who mocks Bane's tactics. Bane beats Bruce into submission, breaking Bane's cowl with a few blows to Bane's head. As Bruce lies prone, Bane reveals where Bruce has established Bruce's base. One of his men hands him a detonator, and upon pressing detonator, explosions go off and a Tumbler falls through the ceiling, revealing that Bane has set up Bane's base underneath Wayne Enterprises'Applied Sciences office. Bane is Batman's most formidable enemy because Bane targets Bruce Wayne directly and uses Wayne's resources against the city of Gotham. As henchmen climb up ropes to raid Applied Sciences and capture Bruce's armory, Bruce engages Bane again, but is beaten down again. Bane lifts Batman over Bane's head and brings Bane down brutally on Bane's knee, breaking Bane's back. Bane tears off the broken section of Batman's cowl and drops section, victorious. Selina, shocked that Kyle just sent Bruce to Bruce's doom, slinks off as mercenaries grab Bruce and drag Bruce away. The scene cuts to the next morning. Blake knocks on Wayne Manor's front door, looking for Bruce, but finding no one home, Blake goes into the city, and while sitting Blake's car, Blake spots Selina getting into a cab. Recognizing Selina from the shootout at the bar, Blake tails Selina to the airport. Noticing the increased police presence, Selina ducks into an offlimits area. A uniformed officer spots Selina and asks to see Selina boarding pass. Selina hands the cop Kyle hat and pretends to check Kyle purse, then punches cop. As Kyle is walking down the jet bridge, Blake comes out of a door in front of Kyle, flashing Blake's badge. Blake talks to Selina in an airport office, asking Selina why Selina's trying to run. Blake is able to determine that Selina's trying to escape from Bane. Selina says Kyle's not sure if Batman is alive, given what Kyle saw of Batman's fight with Bane. Kyle is then arrested, and placed in Blackgate prison. Meanwhile, Bruce wakes up in a foreign prison, in pain from the fight. As Bruce is regaining consciousness, Bruce sees Bane standing over Bruce. The prison sits at the bottom of a deep circular shaft, with the only way in or out being by climbing the stone walls. When Bruce asks Bane why Bruce did not just kill Bruce, Bane taunts Bruce that Bruce intends to kill Bruce's soul first, making Bruce witness Gotham City's downfall. Bane promises Bruce that Bane will live at least long enough to see Gotham destroyed, and that only when Bane is done, and Gotham is ashes, will Bane give Bruce permission to die. The prison is where Bane claims to have been born, and prison is notorious as a Hell on Earth, from which nobody has managed to escape. However, one of the prisoners tells Bruce that a child had managed to escape. The child was born of a mercenary, who fell in love with a warlord's daughter. The mercenary was sentenced to life in the prison, but the daughter made a deal with daughter father to free Bane and instead ended up a prisoner there herself. One day a riot broke out in the prison. daughter was raped and murdered, but daughter child escaped. Bruce concludes that the child must have been Bane. While in Bruce's cell, Bruce sees several prisoners attempt to escape by using a rope, and climbing up the shaft towards the light, but fail to clear the final jump on to a ledge required to escape, instead falling and being slung into the brick walls on the sides of the shaft, severely wounding prisoners. Back in Gotham, Miranda and Fox arrive at Wayne Enterprises for a board meeting on the reactor project. Fox enter the board roomto find Bane and roomto's men holding the board of directors hostage. Bane welcomes Fox and asks Bane to nominate another board member to come with Bane. Fredericks, another board member, volunteers before Fox can name a nominee. Bane and Bane's men take Fox, Miranda and Fredericks down through the hole in Applied Sciences. As Bane is led along, Fox is horrified watching henchmen fixing parts on the Tumblers. Blake is talking with Gordon at the hospital about Batman's disappearance when Foley bursts in and informs Foley of Bane's latest move. This is the last straw for Gordon. Gordon immediately orders Foley to send every available cop to search the sewers to smoke out Bane and Bane's men, on the pretense that men're performing a ` training exercise'. Foley apologizes to Gordon for not taking Foley seriously earlier, and departs. Blake prepares to leave with Foley, but Gordon holds Gordon back and orders Gordon to look up Daggett's leads instead. Foley oversees the operation from outside a subway tunnel portal, and watches as officers of every rank walk into the tunnel, not knowing that time will be a long time before officers will see daylight again. Elsewhere, teams assemble at subway stations, sewer portals, manhole covers, and drainage pipes and descend into the tunnels, searching for Bane and Bane's men. Bane and Bane's men lead Miranda, Fox, and Fredericks into a tunnel, where Fox and Miranda notice Dr. Pavel. men arrive at a dead end where henchmen plant explosive charges into a wall. Bane gives a nod, and all of the henchmen cover men ears as the wall is blasted, clearing a path into the reactor chamber. The explosion echoes through the underground tunnel network, audible to cops searching tunnels elsewhere in the city. Inside the chamber, Bane orders Fox to turn the reactor on. Fox refuses, so Bane signals for Barsad to hold a pistol to Fredericks'head. After Miranda pleads with Miranda to cooperate, Barsad and Fox put pleads hands on a handprint scanner to turn on the reactor. Bane then orders Miranda's men to take the three board members back to the surface. Blake drives around in Blake's unmarked unit, logging Daggett's cement plants and locations men've done construction in. Blake is talking on Blake's cell phone with Gordon, who tells Blake to keep looking deeper. Blake then pulls up to a cement plant. In the reactor plant, Dr. Pavel completes Pavel's work converting the reactor into a four megaton nuclear bomb. Bane orders Pavel's men to remove the reactor's core, which Dr. Pavel objects to removing the core will render the bomb unstable and cause core to melt down within five months until Bane threatens to harm Dr. Pavel's family if family doesn't cooperate. As Pavel walks through the cement plant, Blake recognizes one of the construction workers as the cement truck driver whose truck prevented the police from getting closer to the stock exchange during the raid. Blake mentions that Blake is not allowed to believe in coincidences. On cue, the driver's colleague tries to swing a knife at colleague. Blake twists the guy's arm and shoots Blake. The driver grabs Blake from behind, and after a struggle, Blake fires Blake's gun at the truck. The bullet ricochets off the barrel and hits the driver in the back. Blake tries to get the driver to reveal what Blake's working on, but it is too late the man has died. Blake is disgusted with Blake's use of lethal force and tosses Blake's pistol away. When Blake gets out Blake's cell phone and leaves a message for Gordon, Blake notices barrels of polyisobutylene and motor oil, and realizes that using Daggett's construction crews, Bane has rigged numerous construction areas around the city with C4 explosive charges. As Blake drives away from the cement plant, Blake gets on Blake's radio and warns Foley that the cops are about to head into a trap. Foley immediately yells to the watch commanders with Foley to start withdrawing the officers under officers charge. Meanwhile, the mayor shows up at Heinz Field to watch the Gotham Rogues play against the Rapid City Monuments. mayor heads to mayor's private box after shrugging off reporters asking mayor about cops heading underground, using the training exercise story Blake suggested to Foley. As cops search the tunnels, Bane and Bane's men arrive at the stadium, breaking in through the boiler room, and take up positions in the locker room tunnel as a young boy sings the national anthem. All of them are carrying detonators in men hands. During the national anthem, numerous Rogues players are seen, ready to take the field, including Quarterback Ben Roethlisberger, Wide Receivers Mike Wallace and Hines Ward, Safety Troy Polamalu, and Tight End Heath Miller, along with former Steelers coach Bill Cowher. When Bane catches the child's singing, Bane comments, That's a lovely, lovely voice. At the end of the song, Rapid City kicker Ravenstahl kicks off to begin the first quarter. Bane comments, Let the games begin and presses the button on a remote control detonator. Several different events occur simultaneously In the tunnels, officers stop when officers hear booms. As officers are trying to register and identify the noise, portions of the ceilings across the sewer and subway system collapse, trapping them underground. A series of large explosions rip through Manhattan, destroying buildings and infrastructure alike. Bridges leading up to the city, with the exception of the Queensboro Bridge, are destroyed by Bane's explosives, trapping the entire population of the city inside. Blake is driving down another street, siren wailing, when the street starts to blow up. Street lamps, buildings, and telephone poles collapse all around Blake's car, while other vehicles are tossed. Blake manages to stay ahead of the explosives for a short amount of time until one blast causes Blake's car to flip over once before landing upright on blast's wheels, demolished. Once Blake comes to Blake's senses, Blake gets on the radio with Foley, who confirms Blake's predictions every cop in the city is trapped in the tunnels. But Blake realizes that not every cop is stuck down there, and realizes that Bane will try to assassinate Gordon. Unfortunately, Blake's car has been demolished. With no other option, Blake grabs a shotgun from the trunk of Blake's car, and commandeers an SUV from another uninjured motorist. Two of Bane's henchmen arrive at the hospital, searching for Gordon. They fire short bursts with They submachine guns as They enter the lobby, causing patients and guards to take cover. As They search the hospital, Gordon is alerted to They presence when the power goes out and the hospital switches to emergency lighting. Gordon climbs out of Gordon's bed. Outside, Blake screeches to a halt and runs through the lobby. As Blake searches the corridor, Blake hears gunshots. Blake runs to Gordon's room, draws Blake's shotgun, and kicks down the door, to discover that Gordon has already killed the two henchmen. Blake only has a second to register this before Gordon puts a pistol to the back of Gordon's head and orders Gordon to get Gordon's coat. At Heinz Field, wide receiver Hines Ward is running the ball down the field when explosions go off in the support columns to the foundation, causing the field to collapse and swallow the players, except for Ward, who manages to run the ball to the end zone for a touchdown, only noticing the destruction when Ward looks behind Ward. An additional bomb goes off in the mayor's box, incinerating mayor and mayor's aides. As the debris settles, Bane's men storm the bleachers, taking the crowd hostage, while Bane, Barsad and other mercenaries march onto the remains of the field. Bane declares to the crowd that Bane and Bane's men have come to liberate Gotham. Bane displays the fusion reactor core, calling core the instrument of Alfred liberation and interviews Dr. Pavel in front of the shocked audience. After getting Dr. Pavel to admit that Pavel is the only person who knows how to disarm the bomb, Bane thanks Pavel, then breaks Dr. Pavel's neck. Bane also declares that Bane has left one citizen in charge of the detonator who will trigger the bomb in case of any sort of civil rebellion. Bane also threatens the government forces that should anybody try to enter or leave the city, Bane will detonate the nuclear weapon, thus forcing the government forces to guard the city and stop anybody from leaving. The Queensboro Bridge is left intact as a means to provide food and supplies to Gotham's citizens. As Blake drives to Blake's apartment with Gordon, Gordon says Blake has to get in front of a camera, but Blake discourages Blake, saying that Bane will shoot Bane if Bane shows Bane's face. The next day, Bane proceeds to Blackgate Prison, where more than 1,000 prisoners have been incarcerated as per the Dent Act, which gave power to the police. Bane reads out Gordon's speech revealing the truth about Harvey Dent, and declares the prisoners free, as the man who drew up the Dent Act himself was a murderer and a madman. The prisoners join Bane and together enforce what Bane calls martial law forcing the elite out of prisoners homes, holding kangaroo courts presided over by Dr. Jonathan Crane Cillian Murphy and offering prisoners a choice exile or death. Exile means being forced to walk on the frozen East River underneath the Brooklyn Bridge, where the ice cracks and drowns anyone making the crossing. Death is revealed to be the same thing, as those who choose thing get sentenced to death by exile. 84 days into the siege, the Army slips an intelligence team into Gotham disguised as relief workers, under the command of Captain Mark Jones Daniel Sunjata. workers meet with Gordon, Foley, Blake, and some other cops who managed to escape being trapped underground. The soldiers, Blake, and the surviving cops begin tracking three military trucks, one of which carries the nuclear weapon. To avoid detection of the weapon, the three trucks are being driven around the city continuously. Blake takes Jones and Blake's men to a Wayne Enterprises office that Fox and Miranda are sheltered in. Miranda takes responsibility for the creation of the reactor which the bomb was molded from. Fox explains that as the reactor's cells deteriorate, the reactor will become very unstable, and regardless of what happens, the bomb will go off in three weeks. Fox admits that Fox could reconnect the core to the reactor to restabilize core. Blake prepares to leave with Jones, but Jones orders Blake to stay with Fox and Miranda while Blake goes to call in a report. Unfortunately, someone has betrayed Jones and Jones's team, for just as Jones are leaving the hideout, a group of Bane's henchmen ambush Jones and open fire on Jones. Blake and Miranda quickly escape by slipping out a back door, while Fox is captured by a henchman. Jones'team draws Fox weapons and begin shooting back, but prove no match for Bane's men, and Fox are shot dead. When Jones breaks cover and tries to flee, Jones is shot in the chest and falls. As Jones lies on the ground, Bane appears over Jones. Jones says Jones will die before Jones can talk to Jones's commander. Bane assures Bane, I'm on your schedule, captain, and crushes Jones's neck. Bane orders Bane's men to round up Fox and the others for judgment and to hang the soldiers'bodies from one of the bridges as a message for the world. All this time, Bruce, holed up in the prison, is watching the havoc in Gotham on a TV set in the prison. Bruce gets the doctor there to crudely fix Bruce's back as Bruce's fight with Bane partially dislocated Bruce's vertebrae. The doctor puts Bruce into a crude form of traction and pushes the vertebrae back into place. The doctor tells Bruce to remain in that position until Bruce can stand by himself. Enduring the pain, Bruce hallucinates that Bruce sees Ra's Al Ghul who proclaims Bruce's immortality. As the days wear on in the prison, Bruce's anger builds, and Bruce is determined to save Gotham. Bruce rigorously trains Bruce's body with pullups, pushups, and situps and Bruce attempts to make the escape with the rope twice, but fails each time. After the second attempt, Bruce questions how a child could have escaped, but Bruce could not. The doctor explains that while paradoxically, it seems as if having no fear of death should enhance doctor's escape chances, in reality the human trait of fearing death is the necessary ingredient. There are suggestions that Brucein doctor's grief over Rachel's death, physical disability, 8year retirement from Brucein's Batman persona, and isolation is inured to mortality. Brucein seems to have the death wish that Alfred had tried to remedy earlier with the shock of earlier's leaving Bruce. Bruce solves the dilemma in replying that Bruce fears dying in prison when the people of Gotham can only be saved by Bruce if Bruce were to escape. Bruce realizes that the child had escaped without the safety rope, and chooses not to use the rope in Bruce's third attempt. Bruce reveals Bruce's confidence by packing supplies for himself in a bag. Bruce begins the climb to the Arabic chants of Deshi deshi basara basara meaning Rise. When Bruce reaches the pivotal point, requiring the jump, a stream of bats flows from a tunnel inside the cave and startle Bruce, but increase Bruce's confidence. Bruce takes the jump and latches onto the protruding rock and succeeds in Bruce's final attempt. Bruce subsequently throws down a rope from the top, allowing all the current prisoners to escape as well. Bruce returns to Gotham as Batman. Bruce manages to gain trust from Selina after Bruce catches Kyle in the act of beating up two gangbangers trying to harm a young boy by offering Kyle the Clean Slate program Selina accepts. Bruce gets to Miranda and Fox by letting Bane's men capture Bane, as Fox has access to Bruce's backup Batsuit. To escape, Selina comes in and declares to the mercenaries that Bane wants Bruce and Fox by themselves. Kyle knocks out the mercenaries and undoes mercenaries handcuffs. Fox tells Bruce Fox's found a nice girlfriend and Selina says, Fox should be so lucky. Once Fox has put Bruce in Fox's Batsuit, and Bruce has found the Bat, Fox saves Gordon and some of the surviving cops after Gordon are captured and are forced to cross the frozen river, simultaneously lighting a huge Batman symbol which lets everyone in Gotham know that everyone is back. When Bane sees the symbol Bane states, Impossible. Keep Batsuit close. Bane will come for Batsuit. Fox reveals that trigger or no trigger, the nuclear device is unstable and will detonate anyway the next day, and recovers a signal jammer from the Bat which can block the signals from the trigger. With Blake and Selina's help, Batman frees the police trapped in the sewers by using the Bat to destroy debris blocking the tunnels, and rescues Blake after Blake is captured trying to rescue cops through a manhole cover. The next morning, the rallied police forces, led by Foley, assemble on Wall Street, facing against Bane's army. One of Bane's men gets on a megaphone and orders the cops to disperse or be shot at. Foley replies back, There's only one police in this town Bane orders police's Tumblers to open fire, but as one of the Tumblers prepares to blast the cops with one's cannons, the Bat appears and disables the cannons. As one flies off, the incited cops cheer and rush Bane's men. Physical combat ensues between Bane's men and the cops. Batman fights Bane again, with more success. Batman punches Bane's mask, detaching some of the tubes on Batman's mask that feed Bane Batman's anesthetic, which weakens Batman greatly, angers the villain, and forces Bane into the offensive. Batman avoids blow after blow and then lands a series of furious punches on Bane's mask and body, culminating with a roundhouse kick that sends Bane to the floor. When Bane asks Bane how Bane escaped and came back, stating I broke you, Batman tries to force Bane to reveal the location of the trigger device stating, Tell me where the trigger is. Then you have friend permission to die, appropriately using Bane's own phrase against Bane. After Batman tells Bane that Batman is not the only person who can escape from that prison, Miranda suddenly stabs Batman in the side in a soft spot in the suit with her dagger sliding dangerously between Batman's ribs. prison is then revealed that Miranda's real name is Talia, and that her was the child who escaped from the Hell on Earth prison. Bane had been a prisoner there and her protector. During the prison riot that claimed protector mother's life, Bane helped protector escape, but in the process was hurt severely. The prison doctor attempted to repair the damage, but doctor's methods resulted in Bane needing anesthetics to constantly keep the pain at bay. After protector escaped, Talia tracked down protector father Ra's Al Ghul. protector convinced protector father to rescue Bane, and both were trained within the League of Shadows. Apart from the realization that Bane was an extremist monster, the injuries inflicted on Bane's face became a reminiscence of the suffering endured by Talia's mother in the pit for Ra's Al Ghul, which was why Bane was excommunicated from the group. Talia's intention is to take revenge on Batman for killing mother father, as well as finishing the mission of destroying Gotham for intention's greed that cost mother father's life. mother hits the trigger of the nuclear weapon, but Gordon has managed to fit the signal jammer on the weapon just in time. However, there are only eleven minutes left for the nuke to detonate. MirandaTalia says farewell and leaves Bane to kill Batman. As Bane is about to execute Batman with a shotgun, Selina crashes into the lobby on the Batpod and mortally wounds Bane by blasting Batman with the Pod's large cannon. Talia and Barsad walk out to the Tumblers. As Talia are climbing in, Barsad is shot dead by Foley with a submachine gun as Foley fires from outside the stock exchange. Foley and several other officers are killed when Talia orders Barsad Tumbler's driver to gun Foley down. Barsad takes control of the truck carrying the weapon, but Barsad escorts are finished off in a prolonged chase sequence, with Selina riding the Batpod and Batman flying the Bat in the air, and attacking the convoy. Talia's truck goes off the road and crashes, and Barsad is fatally wounded because Barsad isn't wearing a seatbelt. In Barsad last moments alive, Barsad explains how Barsad access to the reactor chamber allowed Barsad to set a timer to flood timer, preventing the weapon from being returned there. Barsad dies believing Barsad had finally completed Barsad father's work and avenged father's death. Fox escapes the flooding chamber and realizes there is no way of stabilizing the weapon. The weapon can not be deactivated, and will detonate in less than 2 minutes. Batman explains that the Bat has no autopilot, and that Batman will need to fly the bomb out of Gotham. Batman shares a kiss with Selina, before revealing to Gordon Gordon's true identity Gordon says that a true hero puts a coat on a young boy after hero's parents are killed, and says, kiss's going to be alright son, as Gordon does to Bruce in Batman Begins. As Batman exits, Gordon says Batman's true name. With not much time left, Batman attaches the bomb to the Bat, and flies bomb away from the city, and out over the bay. The citizens of Gotham watch as the weapon detonates on the horizon, and the mushroomcloud balloons over the bay. In the aftermath, the police recapture all of those released by Bane. A private funeral is held on the grounds of Wayne Manor for Bruce, by those who knew Bruce's true identity. Alfred sobs quietly, feeling that Alfred let Bruce's parents down by not protecting Alfred. Blake resigns from the police force, and explains to Gordon that Gotham will never really know who saved Gotham. Gordon tells Gordon that parents will know that it was ` The Batman'who saved parents. In tribute, a statue has been erected in Batman's memory. In the aftermath of Bruce Wayne's death, certain provisions are made. The majority of the estate is sold, with the money given to Alfred. Wayne Manor is given to the city of Gotham, as a place for orphaned boys to stay. Strangely, one of the Wayne family's treasures can not be located. Blake is also given a duffel bag as part of Bruce's will. When presenting Blake's I.D., the clerk who checks bag suggests that Robin go by Robin's real first name as name appears on Robin's I.D. Robin. Back in Applied Sciences, Lucius has workers go over the second camouflage rotor in the underground storage area. Wanting to know what Freeman could have done to get the autopilot functioning, Freeman is surprised when the workers explain that the autopilot is functional, and the computer log shows that Bruce Wayne made the changes 6 months prior. Up on the roof of Gotham's Police Department, Gordon finds the once broken Batsignal repaired. Meanwhile, Blake has opened the duffel bag, and finds a spelunking rope, and GPS coordinates. The information leads Blake to a waterfall. Blake makes Blake's way past the waterfall, and into the cave, where Blake's light attracts a flurry of bats. The light Blake uses, given to Blake by Wayne, is the same the Bruce uses when Bruce first enters the cave in Batman Begins. In Florence, Italy, Alfred has returned to the restaurant that Alfred had visited during Bruce's absence long ago. As Alfred scans the tables, Alfred sees Bruce and Selina at a nearby table and smiles. A fleeting glance between both Alfred and Bruce is enough to assure the other that each of Alfred will be alright. After Bruce had attached the bomb to the Bat and taken off, Bruce ejected with an escape pod to distance himself from the explosion and allowed the autopilot to continue to transport the bomb. There is a shot of Batman in a flying vehicle with a timer at five seconds, leading viewers to believe the explosion killed Batman, but Batman was not in the Bat carrying the bomb and was not within the blast radius of the bomb in that timeframe. In the final shot, we see Blake walking over a pool of water. As Blake does so, Blake's movement activates the black flooring containing the batsuit. Blake stares around Blake as the flooring rises up.