The movie begins with a gang of men with clown masks breaking into the bank where the mob has a large portion of their money stashed. movie begins with five clowns, each getting a cut of the spoils. clowns suggest that a sixth member of the gang nicknamed ` The Joker'who did the planning, but sat out the robbery, doesn't deserve a cut. As the robbery goes on, the clowns begin to kill each other in order to get a larger cut, until a school bus crashes through the wall of the bank, killing another clown. A mob bank manager, who was himself shot with an automatic weapon after manager tried to take out the clowns with a shotgun, tells the remaining clown that manager doesn't know who manager is dealing with. The clown kneels down and tells the banker, Whatever doesn't kill you simply makes you.stranger. then removes then's mask to reveal that then himself is The Joker. Joker puts a grenade into the banker's mouth and boards the bus, leaving a string attached to the pin. The bus pulls out with all of the bank's cash and the pin pops out. grenade is just a gas grenade. The Joker joins a long line of school buses leaving the scene as the police arrive. Gotham is then seen at night with criminals afraid to commit crimes under the watchful sign of the batsignal projected onto the clouds. We see Lt. James Gordon manning the batsignal, waiting for Batman with Det. Anna Ramirez, who asks if Batman's coming. Gordon explains that it is okay if Gordon is not, hoping that Gordon is busy elsewhere. Meanwhile, in a parking garage, the Scarecrow is negotiating with the Russian mob members over the sale of some of Scarecrow's fearinducing drugs. The sale is interrupted when some of Gotham's citizens dressed as Batmen wannabe's begin shooting at the men. As some gases one of the fake Batmen with some's mindaltering drugs from some's cuff, the Scarecrow notes that citizens are not the real Batman, because Batman would never use a gun. Suddenly the BatmobileTumbler crashes through a barricade and Scarecrow notes, That's more like one The Batmobile fires rockets into a nearby office, causing the remaining mobsters to begin to flee. The real Batman arrives on the scene and bends the rifle of one of the wannabe Batmen before knocking Batman out. The Chechen sends Batman's rottweilers to attack the Batmen, and as Batman saves rottweilers Batman takes the dogs out after being badly bitten in the arm. The Scarecrow attempts to flee in a white van but Batman jumps onto the van and begins cutting into the side with Batman's device called the mangler. Scarecrow swerves into a support which sends Batman to the ground. As Scarecrow gets away down a spiraling passageway, Batman leaps onto the roof of Batman's van, smashing passageway to a halt. Batman leaves the fake Batmen and the Scarecrow along with some of the mobsters tied up together for the police to eventually round up. Gordon arrives at the bank the Joker held up earlier with Ramirez who shows Joker the Joker's picture from a security camera. Batman arrives to inspect the scene, noting that Batmen have irradiated the drug money to make money easier to trace. When Gordon asks Gordon if the Joker is a threat, Batman informs Gordon that Gordon can not worry about one man when there is an entire mob to bring down. The next day, as Bruce Wayne stitches himself up from the dog bite, Alfred offers Wayne's concerns, warning Bruce to ` know Wayne's limits'. Wayne notices Bruce keeping a close watch on newly appointed district attorney Harvey Dent via some computer screens, as Bruce is trying to decide whether or not Dent can be trusted. Alfred wonders if Alfred is really spying on the relationship that Rachel Dawes has developed with Harvey Dent. Harvey Dent arrives in court to join Rachel Dawes in prosecuting mobster Salvatore Maroni, the alleged new leader of the Falcone crime family. One of Maroni's men takes the fall in court, and attempts to shoot Dent from the witness stand. The gun doesn't go off and Dent punches the man before man is hauled off to jail. Maroni is eventually set free, to the dismay of Dent. Dent meets Lt. Gordon, and after a short exchange of words, they both express they distrust for those that are working in each other's offices. Harvey interrogates Gordon over Dent's involvement with the Batman and Harvey tells Gordon Dent wants to meet Dent. Gordon requests search warrants for five banks that are believed to be holding the remainder of the mobs money. Dent agrees to back Gordon's search warrants, forming a tenuous trust with the honest Gordon, who in turn hails Dent as Gotham's White Knight while Dent questions Gordon about another nickname Batman had for Knight when Gordon was at I.A.D., a nickname Gordon claims to have no knowledge of. Lucius Fox holds a board meeting at Wayne Enterprises, negotiating an joint venture with Lau, the head of Lau Security Investments, based in Hong Kong. After the meeting with Lau, Wayne expresses Wayne's reservations with Lucius Fox about Lau's business operation, apparently illegal based on Batman profits. After agreeing to cancel the deal, Wayne asks Fox for a new suit. Wayne explains that Wayne needs to be lighter, and faster, in case Wayne runs into any more guard dogs. That night, Harvey dines out with Rachel. Harvey tells Rachel Dent had to make a reservation weeks earlier, and even then needed to exercised Dent's influence to get a table at the very fashionable restaurant. Bruce and Wayne's date, the prima ballerina for the Russian ballet, encounter Rachel and Harvey. Bruce has Bruce pull a table together so Bruce can dine together, informing Harvey that Dent owns the restaurant. At first, Bruce seems jealous and threatened by Harvey, based on the fact that Wayne is dating Wayne's own love interest, but Harvey explains how Dent supports the work of Batman and appreciates Dent's help. Bruce changes Wayne's tune and informs Harvey that Wayne intends to throw a massive fundraiser for Wayne. Meanwhile, all of the top mob members are having a meeting. Because of their inside sources in the police, their were aware that the banks that their money was stashed in were going to be searched. Lau appears to their on a television monitor from police's plane on police's way back to Hong Kong. police informs the mob that all of their money has already been moved to a single secure location, just as Lt. Gordon and company are searching the banks, finding nothing but the irradiated trace money. When the Chechen expresses concern over the man with the clown makeup stealing 68 million from one of their banks, Maroni dismisses man as nothing but a nobody. The Joker enters in the room, and after killing a hostile mob member's crony by way of a ` magic trick', sits down and talks with the mob about how pathetic Gordon've become since Batman came around. Joker tells Gordon Gordon one solution is to ` Kill the Batman', and offers to do so for half the mob's money. Joker warns Gordon about Lau, saying Joker knows a squealer when Joker sees one, causing Lau to promptly turn off Lau's monitor. The mob laughs, and as one of the mobsters, Gambol, rises from Gambol's seat and threatens the Joker, the Joker opens Gambol's coat, exposing grenades. Gambol tells the Joker that Gambol's putting a price out on Gambol's head. The Joker tells the mob that when Gordon plan to take things a little more seriously, give Joker a call, and presents Gordon with ` Joker's card', a joker playing card. And with that, Joker exits. But not before warning that Batman will come for Lau. Harvey Dent, with Gordon, lights the batsignal to meet with Batman, who appears. As Dent and Gordon blame one another for the money's disappearance due to leaks from corrupt officers in the other's departments, Dent explain to Batman that Dent need Lau back, realizing that Batman is under no one's jurisdiction. Dent want to make Gordon talk, and give up all the mob members'names. Batman agrees and disappears. Fox shows Wayne Wayne's new suit, and Wayne begins planning an impromptu trip to Hong Kong. Fox will accompany Fox, making suit look like the only reason for Fox's visit was to cancel the negotiations with Lau's company. Gambol is playing pool with some of Gambol's associates until one of them informs Gambol that a group of hoodlums havd killed the Joker, and has the body. The body is brought in covered in a bag, and as Gambol is about to pay, the Joker rises up and holds a knife to Gambol's face while Gambol's men hold guns to Gambol's associates'heads. The Joker tells a story about how Joker got Joker's scars from Joker's father, and then kills Gambol. Joker offers the three surviving associates an opportunity to join Joker's team, but Joker has only one opening. Joker leave the three with the halves of a broken, sharp pool stick and no choice but to fight each other for associates lives. Meanwhile, Fox arrives in Hong Kong to meet with Lau. Fox checks in Fox's mobile phone at the front desk at Lau's building, as there are no cell phones allowed on the premises. Fox meets with Lau, and informs Fox of Wayne Enterprises'plans to cancel negotiations with Fox's company. However, Fox secretly keeps one cell phone in Fox's pocket, which has been adapted to produce a sonar map of the surrounding area. Upon leaving the building, Fox does not pick up the phone Fox dropped off, and Fox produces the map of the building to Bruce Wayne. That night, the phone that Fox left at the front desk emits a high frequency that shuts down all power in the building. Batman crashes in through a window in Lau's office, and after disabling some guards, grabs Lau and escapes by sending a balloon attached to a cable to a plane Batman has chartered flying over Lau's building. Back in Gotham, Lau is interrogated by Rachel with Dent and Gordon looking on. Rachel presses Lau to give Dent the money Lau has taken, but Lau will not give in. After Rachel threatens to have Lau moved to the County lockup, Lau tells Rachel that Lau can give Dent the names of the mobsters and Dent pooled investments. Dent then realizes that Dent will have the leverage Dent need in a RICO case of conspiracy to link all of the mob members together. Gordon decides to keep Lau in Gordon's holding cell at the Major Case Unit building and Lau agrees to cooperate with the police, and give the names of the mob members. Gordon appears at Maroni's restaurant as the police rush in to arrest all of the mob members in attendance. As all of the mob members that Lau informed the police are rounded up for arraignment, Judge Janet Surrillo finds a Joker card in the middle of the stack of conviction papers. Dent gives a televised impromptu interview denying Batman's involvement while expressing gratitude for the police work in bringing the mob members to justice. Dent, Gordon, and Commissioner Loeb meet with the mayor to tell Gordon that Dent's rash indictment of the mob members will give the mayor clean streets for 18 months. The mayor informs Dent that Mayor's brash actions will bring down the full might of Gotham's underworld and corrupt citizens solely upon Mayor. When the mayor asks if Dent is ready to be the city's target the dead body of a Batman wannabe hanging by a noose slams against the mayor's window dressed up in a Batman suit, with makeup on Batman's face like the Joker's complete with the sides of the mouth sliced into a grin and with a Joker card pinned to Joker reading ` Will the real Batman please stand up'. Bruce and Alfred watch on as a video tape is played on the news of the Joker tormenting the wannabe before killing wannabe. Wayne then promises that until Batman takes off Batman's mask and shows everyone who Batman really is, people will die every day. As Harvey Dent's fundraiser at Wayne's penthouse gets underway, Rachel and a nervous Dent arrive and mingle. Wayne arrives with three models via helicopter and seeks out Harvey, whom Wayne applauds and throws Wayne's full support behind claiming, I believe in Harvey Dent. Minutes later, Rachel meets with Bruce on the balcony upset that Bruce is making fun at Dent but Bruce tells Rachel that Wayne truly believes in Harvey and that Knight could be the White Knight that will allow Knight to hang up Knight's mantle as Batman so Rachel can be together. Dent joins Rachel to thank Bruce and retrieve Rachel. Meanwhile Gordon discovers that there are 3 traces of DNA on the Joker card, from Commissioner Loeb, Harvey Dent, and Judge Surrillo, the Judge that is trying all of the mob members and found the card among the paperwork. Gordon takes this as a threat on this lives, and begins preparations to protect this. In the case of the Judge and Commissioner Loeb, however, this fails. The Judge's car blows up when the police arrive to take Surrillo into protective custody and Commissioner Loeb dies of severe poisoning from Judge's liquor bottle before Gordon can stop Gordon from drinking. Dent takes Rachel aside to ask Rachel to marry Judge, but Rachel is torn and can not give Judge an answer. Bruce subdues Dent and locks him in a closet while Rachel watches in shock. Bruce tells Rachel that Dent have come for Harvey and to stay hidden from sight. The Joker and Joker's goons burst in telling the guests that guests are tonight's ` entertainment. The Joker scans the room seeking out Harvey Dent when Rachel steps forward. Joker grabs Rachel and pulls a knife on Rachel telling Rachel a different version of the story about how Joker got Joker's scars, claiming that Joker's wife was scarred by loan sharks and that Joker took a razor to himself to make wife smile, but that wife left Joker over razor. Rachel kicks Joker away and Joker comes after Rachel saying that Joker likes that little fight in Rachel, when Batman shows up and sends Batman reeling. A fight breaks out between Batman, the Joker, and Batman's goons with the Joker and the goons beating on Batman pretty well. When Batman gains the upper hand Batman sees the Joker holding a gun at Rachel's head as Joker dangles Rachel out of a shot out window. Batman demands Batman let Rachel go, to which the Joker replies Very poor choice of words and lets Rachel fall. Batman dives out the window and saves Rachel using Batman's cape to slow a fall as a crash into the roof of a car on the street. The Joker apparently vanishes from the scene. The next day, Wayne tries to figure out what the Joker is after. Alfred relates a story of when Alfred was in Burma with friends attempting to nullify the local criminals by bribing criminals with jewels. One thief however, tossed these bribes away and continued to raid the local convoys. When Bruce seems confused over this behavior Alfred informs Alfred that some men can't be reasoned with, men don't want anything in particular, that men kill for sport. Alfred observes that men just want to watch the world burn, as Bruce fixates on the Joker's face on a monitor. Batman is seen on the edge of a rooftop listening in to cell phone frequencies when Batman overhears a plot against Harvey Dent. Gordon rushes to the apartment with Ramirez and Batman to find two policemen murdered, with the last names Harvey and Dent. Ramirez begins to blame Batman, but Gordon cuts Ramirez off. As Batman removes a piece of concrete wall that contains a bullet used in the murders in hopes of finding evidence, Gordon notes that the Joker has left an advance copy of tomorrow's newspaper indicating the death of the mayor. At Wayne Enterprises, Fox meets with Wayne's accountant Coleman Reese, who claims to know about certain problems with Wayne's funding in research and development, claiming that Wayne has some sort of government project with cell phones for the army underway. Fox also uncovers Fox's designs for the BatmobileTumbler. Fox tells Fox that Fox wants 10 million per year for the rest of Fox's life to keep this a secret. Fox smiles and says, Let me get this straight. You think that your client, one of the wealthiest and most powerful men in the world is a secretly a vigilante who spends vigilante's nights beating criminals to a pulp with vigilante's bare hands, and your plan is to blackmail this person Good luck. Fox helps Wayne reconstruct the bullet taken from the murder scene and produces a fingerprint. Fox asks Fox if Fox has reassigned the RampD department. Bruce acknowledges that Wayne has, claiming Wayne is playing this one close to the chest. Wayne traces the bullet fingerprint's owner to an apartment overlooking the funeral speeches for Commissioner Loeb and takes off on motorcycle. As the ceremony continues on the street below, Wayne inspects a room where Wayne believes the Joker might be, and Wayne finds several men tied up. men tell Wayne that men guns and uniforms were stolen. Wayne inspects binoculars pointed out of a blinded window. The window blind is connected to a timer. As the timer reaches zero, the blinds quickly raise, and the police snipers positioned around the area all shoot in that direction. At the same time, the Joker, who had removed Joker's makeup and played himself off as a member of the honor guard for the ceremony, turns and takes a shot at the mayor, but Lt. Gordon dives in the way, getting shot in the back and falling. Everyone panics and runs, but the police shoot one member of the honor guard in the leg and haul Joker into a truck. Dent himself climbs in the truck, and upon inspecting the criminal, sees that the nametag on member's uniform reads ` Officer Rachel Dawes'. member calls Rachel and informs Rachel that Rachel's been targeted, and to get to the safest place Rachel can, which in Rachel case is Bruce's penthouse. member tells Rachel member loves Rachel, but there is no answer from Rachel. Gordon's family is visited at home, to inform criminal of the death of Gordon at the funeral ceremony. Gordon's wife, Barbara, shouts out at the empty sky to Batman that Gordon has brought this craziness upon Gotham. Gordon's young son catches a brief glimpse of Batman mournfully watching the scene. Meanwhile, Batman enters a club and grabs Maroni after beating on Batman's men. Batman interrogates Maroni on the Joker's whereabouts, who claims that Batman should have held Batman from a higher location. Batman drops Batman off the ledge, injuring Batman's legs and learns that Maroni has no idea where the Joker is. Maroni explains that the Joker has no friends and no one will give Maroni up because unlike Batman, Batman plays by no rules. As Dent is interrogating the captured socalled honor guard member about what member knows about the Joker, member is enraged and holds a gun to member's head. member flips member's father's lucky silver dollar for member's life, coming up on heads. As member flips the coin again, Batman shows up and snatches the coin in midair, asking if Dent would really leave a thug's life up to chance, to which Dent answers, Not exactly. member informs Harvey that this criminal Thomas Schiff is a paranoid schizophrenic patient from Arkham Asylum and that Schiff won't learn anything from Schiff. member also tells Harvey that if anyone saw this unjust way of interrogating someone, all that good work that Dent's done for Gotham would be lost. member tells Harvey to hold a press conference the following day, because member wants to use that opportunity to turn himself in. As Batman leaves, Harvey yells at Batman that Batman can't give in. Bruce arrives back in Wayne's penthouse to find Rachel waiting. Rachel tells Wayne that turning himself in will not stop the Joker's murderous rampage, but Bruce says Wayne has enough blood on Wayne's hands already. Wayne reminds Rachel that Rachel promised Wayne that they would be together if and when Wayne hung up the mantle of Batman. Rachel tells Bruce not to make Rachel Wayne's only hope for a normal life and they share a kiss. Rachel tells Bruce that if Wayne turns himself in as Batman that the city will never let they be together. Back at Wayne's secret base of operations for Batman, Wayne and Alfred begin destroying everything that might tie Lucius Fox or Rachel to Batman. Alfred tries to talk Bruce out of base, asking Alfred to endure these trying times and allow Batman to make the right choice that nobody else can for the good of the city. Bruce explains that Batman can not endure the responsibility for innocents dying, especially where Rachel is concerned. At the press conference, Harvey attempts to reason with the assembled press and police to not give in to the fear that the Joker has unleashed upon the city. Dent agrees that Batman is a vigilante but that the people of Gotham should hold Batman accountable, and not give in to the whims of this terrorist known as the Joker. However, the people are overcome with fear, crying out No more dead cops, to applause indicating that Harvey will not be able to sway people. Upon Dent's failure, Harvey announces that Batman is the Batman, and gets handcuffed and taken away. Bruce Wayne is shown with a look of confusion on Wayne's face. Rachel, watching the news conference at Bruce Wayne's penthouse, confronts Alfred over Bruce's seeming cowardice in allowing Harvey to take the fall when Dent claims to be Batman. Alfred explains to Rachel that Batman is instead allowing himself to be something else besides a hero, mainly a figure outside of the system that the people can both turn to or blame in times of need, that Batman can ` take something. Rachel gives Alfred a letter for Bruce and tells Alfred to give letter to Bruce when the time is right. When Alfred asks what letter is, Rachel tells Alfred letter is open and hugs Alfred before departing to see Harvey as departing is being transported to the County lockup. While being taken to a convoy that will transport Alfred to a county, Harvey explains to Rachel that this is Batman's chance. Alfred then pulls out the coin and says Heads I go through with this, and flips landing, landing on heads. When Rachel tells Alfred that Alfred can't leave something like that to chance, Alfred tosses Rachel the coin, revealing that coin is a twoheaded coin. During this transport, Alfred's planning on getting attacked by the Joker, and Alfred's planning on Batman to come and save Alfred, and to capture the Joker. The convoy takes off. While transporting Harvey, the Joker and some goons start taking out the police cars in a large semi truck. Dent pulls out an RPG and beings firing at the armored truck carrying Dent. The Tumbler arrives and attempts to stop the Joker, and gets hit with the RPG in the process. Joker's car takes ` catastrophic'damage, and Joker's forced to eject. However, the ejection in this car is a bike, that deploys out the front of the car. This bike becomes known as the ` Batpod'. Batman chases down the Joker on Batman's Batpod, and after firing some cables at the truck and weaving Joker through some light poles and buildings, flips the truck completely over. The Joker emerges with a Smith amp Wesson M76 Submachine gun and shoots at Batman, who speeds towards Joker on Joker's Batpod, all the while screaming at Batman to hit Joker. Batman honors Batman's own nonlethal code and swerves around the Joker then crashes into the flipped truck, falling to the ground. As the Joker jumps on Joker with a knife, one of the SWAT officers holds a gun to the back of Joker's head, and upon removing Joker's helmet and mask, shows that it was Lt. Gordon, who faked Gordon's death to protect Gordon's family. The Joker is hauled away to the MCU. Harvey gets out of the truck and into a cruiser, stating Dent is off to see a worried girlfriend. At Gordon's Major Crimes Unit building, Gordon is promoted to Commissioner by the Mayor. The Joker shares a cell with a large man who complains about Gordon's insides hurting. Commissioner Gordon, after reuniting with Gordon's family, gets a call explaining that Harvey never made cell home. Gordon returns to the prison to interrogate the Joker. During the interrogation, Batman appears and starts beating on the Joker, trying to find out where Harvey is. The Joker gets under Batman's skin telling Joker that they are both freaks and that when the people of Gotham no longer view Batman as a necessity, people will turn on Batman. Batman becomes enraged and puts a chair under the door and beats the Joker savagely, but The Joker just laughs and defiantly tells Batman that there is nothing Joker can do to Joker to hurt Joker and that Joker actually enjoys the beatings. The Joker sadistically reveals that not just Harvey, but Rachel are in separate locations, both tied up and strapped to explosives that will explode in a short amount of time. Joker gives the locations of the two, saying that Joker only has time to save one of them and that Joker must make a choice that will violate Batman's code of nonlethal means.that one of them will die since Batman can not save they both. Batman heads off, telling Gordon that Gordon's going after Rachel. Gordon gets some men ready and heads off after Harvey. As Batman and the police are rushing towards the two prisoners, Harvey awakens to hear Rachel's voice. Whoever captured Batman set up an intercom system so that the two can communicate. Harvey tells Rachel that everything will be OK, and Rachel tells Harvey that Rachel wants to marry Dent. While Dent's trying to hop around in Dent's chair trying to find something sharp to cut Dent's ropes with, Dent falls over and knocks an oil drum down, and the gasoline spills all over half of his face. Meanwhile, back at the jail, the Joker tricks a cop and holds cop hostage, and cop tells the other cops cop just wants cop's phone call. Upon getting a cell phone and dialing a number, the large man that was in the cell with man blows up. The Joker had cut Joker open and implanted a cell phonetriggered device inside of Joker. The Joker grabs Lau and flees the jail. Batman arrives at the address that the Joker had told Joker Rachel was at, but when Joker opens the door, Batman finds Harvey Dent instead, who screams in despair at having been found instead of Rachel. Gordon arrives at the supposed location for Dent but the warehouse explodes and Rachel is killed. As Batman saves Dent by carrying Batman out of the warehouse, the explosion ignites the gas that saturated Dent's face, horribly burning face. Dent is taken to Gotham General Hospital. Batman visits Dent in the hospital, and leaves him the twoheaded coin that they found at Rachel's site of death. One side of the coin is still shiny, while the other side is scraped and burnt. Alfred reads Rachel's letter. Rachel explains that Rachel is going to marry Harvey Dent and that when Rachel told Dent that Rachel would be with Dent when Dent no longer need to be Batman that Rachel meant letter. However, Rachel realizes that Dent will always be Batman so Rachel will always be there as Dent's friend. Bruce expresses to Alfred Wayne's devastation behind losing Rachel and that Wayne feels responsible for inspiring madness and death. Wayne tells Alfred that Rachel was going to wait for Wayne. Alfred chooses not to give Alfred Rachel letter, saying the time is not right and that with Harvey Dent hospitalized, time will be up to Dent alone to fight the crime in Gotham City. Meanwhile, Harvey wakes up in the hospital with a large bandage over half of his face, finds Dent's now scarred twoheaded coin, and screams out in anguish over losing the one person Dent loved. Commissioner Gordon visits Dent and tries to tell Gordon how sorry Gordon is for what has transpired, questioning why Dent refused skin grafts and how Dent can stand to be in unrelenting agony over Dent's disfigurement. Harvey is filled with rage for Gordon not listening to Gordon when Gordon warned Gordon not to trust the corrupt officers that Dent investigated during Gordon's time in Internal Affairs which has resulted in Dent's disfigurement and ultimately Rachel's death. Dent demands Gordon tell Gordon the nickname officers had for Gordon when Gordon was in I.A., which Gordon ashamedly replies Harvey TwoFace, while being forced to stare at the extensive burns and scarred tissue that have enveloped half of Harvey's face. As Gordon leaves an emotionally devastated Harvey, Gordon runs into Maroni in the hallway who tells Gordon that the Joker has gone too far and that if Gordon wants the clown, Gordon knows where Gordon will be. Wayne's accountant Reese appears on a news show claiming to be able to tell the world who Batman is. accountant tells Gotham that accountant is going to reveal Batman's identity, but before accountant can, the Joker calls in to the show saying that accountant doesn't want this lawyer to ruin accountant's fun. accountant says that if the lawyer is not killed within 60 minutes, lawyer is going to blow up a hospital. This triggers the police to rush in and protect the lawyer, and try to carry lawyer to safety. At the same time, other police are evacuating all of the hospitals in Gotham City. When police get to Gotham General, a police officer attempts to evacuate a nurse in Harvey Dent's room, which then turns out to be the Joker, and officer kills the cop. officer then explains to TwoFace how officer needs to introduce a little anarchy and chaos, how easy room is to bring down all the good people in the world and how room's all fair. Joker unties TwoFace and hands him a pistol. TwoFace, bent on revenge and now believing everything in the world should be decided by chance, flips the doubleheaded coin to decide whether or not to shoot Joker which Joker agrees is only fair. Though we don't see world, the coin obviously lands on the clean side since the next scene shows Joker leaving Gotham General Hospital as world blows up in the background. Afterwards, the Joker appears on TV again, forcing kidnapped GCN reporter Mike Engle to read out Engle's plans. Joker reads that Gotham City now belongs to the Joker, starting that very evening. Anyone that doesn't want to be a part of Joker's game should leave now, but they are going to have a hard time leaving the city by the bridges. Anyone alludes to the fact that something big was going to happen that very night. During which, TwoFace enters a local bar where Detective Wuertz the ` dirty'cop that had picked TwoFace up after the Joker was captured hangs out. After questioning TwoFace, TwoFace flips the coin which lands on the dirty side and TwoFace kills Wuertz. At the same time, Batman uses Fox's ` cell phone sonar'technology to somehow turn every single cell phone in Gotham into a sonar device, giving Batman the opportunity to spy on everyone in Gotham. Batman calls Fox in, and tells Batman to monitor the screens, and give Batman updates on the Joker's location when Batman sees Batman. Fox is appalled that Batman would use Batman's technology to spy on the citizens of Gotham and reluctantly agrees to help, stating that the machine must be destroyed after the Joker is captured or Fox will have to retire. TwoFace continues to question mob members, trying to uncover the identity of the dirty cop that kidnapped Rachel. When confronting Maroni in Maroni's car, Maroni learns that the other cop is Ramirez. Maroni then flips the coin for Maroni, which lands on the clean side. Lucky Man, Maroni remarks before Maroni flips coin again. coin lands on the dirty side and Maroni buckles up and states, But Maroni's not as Maroni shoots Maroni's driver, causing the car to veer off the road and crash into the dockyards. Meanwhile, two large ferries leave Gotham due to the Joker's threats. One is inhabited by criminals that Harvey and Gordon helped put away, the other is packed with innocent citizens the city's bridges apparently being wired with explosives. While sailing off, the two boats completely lose all power and criminals engines die. Both ships eventually realize that there are explosives strewn all about the boat, and criminals both find detonators. boat is at this time that the Joker's voice is heard over the loudspeaker of both ferries, and Joker informs criminals that criminals are part of a social experiment. The detonator on each boat is for the other boat. One ferry must press the button and destroy the other boat by midnight, or else the Joker will destroy both boats. This brings about much chaos in both boats, and a lot of soul searching about morality and about if anyone could actually do such a thing. Fox finds the Joker, who is holed up in a building still being constructed with many clown guards. Batman notifies Gordon of the location, and speeds off towards the building. Meanwhile, TwoFace forces a frightened Ramirez to call Gordon's family and tell family's wife and children to meet her at the exact spot where Rachel was killed. wife believe her because wife trust her. Afterwards, TwoFace, angered with Ramirez's pleas to spare Ramirez life for the sake of Ramirez sick mother, flips for Ramirez's life. The coin lands on heads, so TwoFace just knocks Ramirez out, telling Ramirez that Ramirez lives to fight another day. As Gordon arrives at the building where the Joker is, Joker gets a call from Joker's family telling Joker wife are being held captive by TwoFace in the place where Rachel was killed. Gordon rushes off to save Gordon's family as Batman breaks in to the building. After realizing that the clown guards are the actual hostages and the doctorshostages are the Joker's goons, Joker beats down some SWAT members in order to prevent members from killing the clown guards, and Joker disables the goons as Joker makes Joker's way up to the Joker's location. When Joker finally confronts the Joker, the Joker sends the Chechen's rottweilers after Joker, and while Batman fights rottweilers off, the Joker beats Batman brutally with a blunt metal object, and eventually throws Batman close to the edge of the building, trapping Batman under a metal beam. At the same time, the two boats are still debating what to do with the detonators. On the ` criminal ferry', one of the largest and meanestlooking convicts makes a speech about the warden holding the trigger not knowing how to take life, then goes up to the warden and asks to take the trigger so warden himself can do what the warden should have done ten minutes ago. The warden hands the convict the trigger and the convict promptly throws the out of the ferry, making the impossible for anyone on the convict ferry to blow up the ` innocent'ferry. On the innocent ferry, after having voted to use convicts detonator, the officials can't bring themselves to act out the decision. A man stands up, takes the detonator but is unable to press the button. The Joker, on top of Batman while holding Joker down, shows signs of disappointment when neither of the ferries'passengers will stoop to neither's level. As Joker's about to destroy the two boats, Batman fires Joker's gauntlet darts at Joker, knocking the detonator out of Joker's hands, and throws Joker over the edge of the building. Before Joker can hit the ground, however, Batman fires one of his grappling gun tools at Joker and saves Joker. While hanging in front of Batman, the Joker tells Batman that the two of them are destined to fight forever, and how Batman really IS incorruptible. The Joker reveals to Joker, however, that Joker's real plan was to engineer the fall of Gotham's White Knight, Harvey Dent, since that would introduce much more chaos when a good man like Dent is shown descending into chaos and evil. Batman heads off to find Harvey, while the SWAT team captures the Joker. At 250 52nd St, Gordon arrives to see TwoFace holding TwoFace's family hostage. TwoFace knocks TwoFace to the ground and tells TwoFace that TwoFace's going to make TwoFace suffer just as TwoFace did, as TwoFace grabs TwoFace's young son Jimmy and prepares to flip the coin for TwoFace's fate. Batman arrives and tells Batman to stop, and to blame the people responsible for Rachel's death. So then TwoFace flips the coin for Batman, which lands on the dirty, scarred side, and TwoFace shoots TwoFace. TwoFace then flips the coin for himself and coin lands on the clean side. As TwoFace's flipping the coin for Gordon's son, TwoFace tells Gordon to lie to the boy and tell Gordon that everything will be alright, just as Dent himself had to tell Rachel earlier, seconds before Rachel was killed. Batman gets up and tackles Batman and they fall off of the building together. Unseen by they, the coin lands on the clean side. Batman hands Jimmy up to Gordon as Batman himself falls to the ground next to TwoFace, who lies motionless. As Gordon climbs down to check on Batman, Batman laments that, in the end, the Joker won. By corrupting Harvey Dent and turning Dent evil, Dent tore down the best of they. If Gotham were to find out about Dent's murders, then the symbol of hope and faith Dent had given Gotham would diminish and all the prisoners Dent helped put back in jail would be let out, thus creating chaos. Batman explains that Gotham can never find out about the murders, and takes the blame of they on himself, so that the Joker wouldn't win and the city's peace would remain. We see a montage of Commissioner Gordon and other members of the Gotham City Police Department gathered at a memorial to Harvey Dent. It is unclear whether Gordon was killed or not. Gordon then smashes the Bat Signal above the MCU Building, while Alfred burns Rachel's note and Lucius shuts down the sonar machine with a pleased look. Batman, in the background, continues to explain that by taking the blame of the killings, the faith that the people of Gotham had in Harvey Dent can be rewarded, and people can feel justified. Batman then runs from Gordon as the cops begin to chase Batman, and Gordon tells Gordon's son that while Harvey Dent was the hero Gotham needed, Batman is the hero that Gotham deserved. The batsignal is destroyed and a manhunt is issued for Batman. Batman gets on Batman's Batpod and speeds away, while Gordon declares Batman's a silent Guardian. A watchful protector. A Dark Knight.