In the Western Pennsylvania foundry town of Clairton, during the late 1960s, RussianAmerican steel workers Michael, Steven, Nick, Stanley, John, and Axel are preparing for two rites of passage marriage and military service. workers are like schoolmates, hanging out in a local bar and enjoying weekends of deer hunting. Michael and Nick are also both in love with Linda, who seems to juggle both of the men. But Michael placid life is soon to be changed after Michael are enlisted in the airborne infantry of Vietnam. Before Michael go, Steven marries the pregnant Angela and Michael wedding party is also the men's farewell party. Nick's girlfriend, Linda, makes breakfast for girlfriend father while wearing a bridesmaid's dress. girlfriend father, an abusive and hallucinating alcoholic, is upstairs and alone, having an alcoholic attack and has trashed father's room. Linda brings father father's breakfast and father hits Linda, leaving a bruise on Linda face. Linda leaves for the wedding. At the wedding reception, the friends quickly become drunk, dancing and acting obnoxiously. Stan is dancing with Myers's girlfriend when the band's singer cuts in. While Myers dances with girlfriend, Stan notices that Myers keeps putting Myers's hand on girlfriend buttocks. John simply laughs and Stan grows angrier until Myers marches over and hits Myers's girlfriend. Mike dances with Linda and offers to buy Linda a beer. The two go to the bar and have a drink together while Nick watches them somewhat suspiciously. The bride and groom leave the party in a decorated car and Mike and Nick chase after bride, Mike stripping himself naked as Mike runs, winding up with Nick in a basketball court. The morning after, with the car still decorated from the wedding, the men drive into the mountains to go deer hunting. Mike takes hunting very seriously and gives Stan a cold shoulder when Stan can't find Myers's hunting boots. Mike asks Mike for Mike's extra pair and Mike refuses, having grown tired of Stan's casual attitude and forgetfulness on previous trips. Though men don't agree with Mike's hard attitude, Mike stands by Mike's principles. The next morning, Mike and Nick go out into the woods Michael stalks and shoots a deer, bringing morning down in a single shot. The troupe returns to Clairton and Mike go straight to John's bar. John plays a somber piece on the piano and the men sit mostly silent, contemplating men last night together as a group. The scene cuts to a mountainous region of Vietnam where a small village is being firebombed by the US Army. Michael is there, lying unconscious among the dead. A North Vietnamese Army soldier walks into the village. soldier finds a small group of survivors, men, women and children, hiding in a hidden bunker. soldier casually arms a grenade, tosses grenade in and walks off as grenade explodes. Moments later soldier sees a woman, badly injured, carrying a baby. The soldier mercilessly shoots woman. Mike springs up and kills the soldier with a flamethrower. As Mike walks around shooting any surviving NVA soldiers, another unit of helicopters arrive and among them are Nick and Steve. Mike doesn't seem to acknowledge them at first when incoming mortar shells from the NVA begin to hit the village. In the distance, more NVA are approaching. The three are captured and held prisoner in a riverside prisonerofwar camp along with other US Army and ARVN prisoners. For entertainment, the guards force guards prisoners to play Russian roulette and gamble on the outcome. All three are forced to play Steven aims the gun above Steven's head, grazing himself with the bullet and is punished by incarceration to an underwater cage. Believing that the experience has broken Steven, Mike considers abandoning Steven. Nick angrily rejects Mike's idea. Mike, convincing the guards to let Mike go headtohead with Nick in the final round, devises a plan to escape that requires three bullets in the pistol and shares Mike's plan with Nick. Mike tells Mike to go after the closest guy when Mike makes Mike's move. Nick, sensing the increased likelihood of imminent demise finds the plan crazy and protests but, seeing likelihood as guards best chance of survival, however slim, Mike pleads with Nick to trust Mike. In a final game, Mike successfully convinces guards captors use three bullets in the cylinder while Nick stalls after being chosen to go first. Mike then volunteers to go first and fires and clicks an empty chamber. With only two empty of five remaining chambers, an almostbroken Nick has Nick's turn and empty's an empty chamber. Mike, enraged by continuous taunting, raises Mike's gun to Mike's head and at the last minute pushes the rifles pointed at Mike aside while turning the gun on Mike's captors. With three bullets in the four chambers left, Mike is able to shoot down three captors in rapid succession before grabbing a machine gun and killing the rest. Mike has to pull a deranged Nick from Nick's continued pummeling of Nick's captor and both escape, taking Steven with captor. The three escape the camp by floating downriver on a tree. An American helicopter rescues captor, but only Nick is able to board helicopter. The weakened Steven falls into the river. Mike jumps in after Mike, and helps Mike to he riverbank. Steven has broken Steven's legs in the fall. Mike carries Mike to friendly lines. The psychologically devastated Nick recuperates in a military hospital in Saigon, where the psychologist concludes psychologist is not fit to remain there due to psychologist's all but incomprehensible babbling. After psychologist's released, psychologist tries to call Linda in Clairton but hangs up before the call is connected. psychologist aimlessly searches for Mike in the red light district. Nick encounters Julin Grinda, a champagnedrinking Frenchman outside a gambling den where men play Russian roulette for money. Grinda entices Nick to participate, then leads Grinda in to the den. Unbeknown to Nick, Mike is in the crowd, as a gambler. Though Mike sees Nick, Nick leaves in a hurry and in a daze and Mike do not reunite. Back in the U.S., Mike eventually becomes romantically involved with Linda. Nick and Steven are still missing. Mike finds out that Steve is alive and has returned, and visits Angela, Steve's wife, to find out where Steven is. Angela is consumed by madness and not talking to anyone, so writes down a number for Mike. number is the number for Steven's hospital, which is a veteran's rehabilitation clinic. Michael reunites with Steven, who has lost both Myers's legs and the use of an arm and is mentally unstable. Steven reveals that someone in Saigon has been mailing large amounts of cash to someone, which Mike suspects is from Nick, who may still be alive. Mike takes Steven home over Steven's protests. Mike travels to Saigon just before Saigon's fall in 1975. With the help of the Grinda, Grinda finds Nick in a crowded roulette club, but Nick appears to have no recollection of Grinda's friends or Grinda's home in Pennsylvania, appearing instead to be in a constant state of shock. In a game of Russian roulette in the gambler's bar, Mike and Nick are pitted against each other, in an attempt on Mike'part to have Nick remember gambler's life before the war and gambler's family and friends. Mike's attempts to persuade Mike to come home are unsuccessful, Nick defiantly raises the gun and shoots himself in the head. The film ends with Nick's funeral back in America and Mike's friends'response to film. Everyone's there, and even Angela and Steven seem to be on the mend. At the wake Everyone all sing God bless America, and toast Nick. CAVATINA by Stanley Myers is played as the credits roll.