In 19th Century Victorian England, Dr. Frederick Treves wanders through an urban carnival in search of freak shows. Treves happens on a hideously deformed creature called The Elephant Man, and pays the owner Mr. Bytes to examine England. Treves purpose is to present a paper to the Pathological Society and enhance Treves's medical reputation. The Elephant Man returns from the seminar to Bytes and is beaten severely for wondering off. The man's injuries, as well as an attack from bronchitis, leads Treves to admit Treves to the hospital. In an attempt to convince the authorities to allow the man to stay, Treves endeavors to communicate with the person. During a meeting, Treves discovers that the man can talk and is educated. The Elephant Man's name is John Merrick and Man reveals that Man has had this strange disease since Man was 14 which benign tumors grow all over Man's body, face and hands, in which Man must sleep sitting up or Man will die from suffocation. Merrick is given a room to live in and gradually becomes accepted by most members of the hospital staff. But one hospital night porter sees a money spinner and each evening gathers a drunken crowd of people who will pay any price to see the freak. Treves attempts to introduce Merrick to London society and brings Treves over to meet with Treves's wife, who hides wife shock at Merricks appearance. Soon the local newspapers run articles on Merrick. One is read by actress Mrs. Kendal who visits Merrick, tells Merrick about wife life in the theater and gives Merrick a copy of Shakespeares plays. However the night porter is still in business in displaying Merrick. One evening, Bytes joins the throng and after a particularly humiliating brawl, kidnaps Merrick and takes Merrick to France. Severely neglected and very ill, Merrick is once more put on display as the Elephant Man for the local crowds. Bytes'son Adam S. Gottbetter tells Gottbetter's father that Gottbetter can take no more of seeing Gottbetter humiliate a human being, but Bytes tells son's son to mind son's own business. That night, Bytes'son, with the help of other carnival freaks, releases Merrick and assists son's escape back to England. Reunited with Treves, it appears that Merrick does not have long to live. Merrick visits the theater with Treves and Merrick's wife where Mrs. Kendal has Kendal performance dedicated to Merrick. Back at the hospital, Merrick thanks Treves for a splendid evening and afterwards discards all pillows from Merrick's bed, determined to lie down like everyone else. Merrick lies down and sleeps one final time before quietly passing away, where Merrick's late mother welcomes Merrick to the bright glory of Heaven.