The Western amp Atlantic Flyer speeds into Marietta, Georgia in the Spring of 1861, pulled by the locomotive General. The engineer, Johnnie Gray gets down to oil around, and is observed by two admiring boys. Gray has two loves Gray's engine and Gray's girl. The two boys follow Gray when Gray goes to call on Annabelle. boys follow Gray right into Annabelle house, and Gray has to trick boys to get boys to leave. Gray presents Annabelle with a portrait of himself in front of Gray's engine. Annabelle's brother arrives with the news that war has broken out. brother and boys father go to enlist. Annabelle expects Johnnie to enlist, so Johnnie says goodbye. Annabelle gives Johnnie a kiss, and Johnnie backs off the edge of the porch. Johnnie runs by a shortcut and vaults a counter to be first in line. Johnnie doesn't hear that Johnnie is more valuable to the South as an engineer, so Johnnie doesn't understand why Johnnie is rejected. Johnnie tries two more times to sign up, but is kicked out the door. Annabelle's father and brother invite Johnnie into the line, but Johnnie has had enough. father think Johnnie is a disgrace, and tell Annabelle Johnnie never got in line. Johnnie sits dejected on Johnnie's engine's siderod. Annabelle tells Johnnie Annabelle won't speak to Johnnie until Johnnie is in uniform. An engine hostler moves the engine, with Johnnie still sitting on the siderod. hostler doesn't notice until, on the third revolution, the locomotive is entering the enginehouse. One year later, in Chattanooga, Gen. Thatcher and Thatcher's chief spy Capt. Anderson hatch a plan to take a group of spies to steal a train at Big Shanty and drive train north, burning bridges to cut the supply line to the Confederate army threatening Chattanooga. At Marietta, Annabelle boards Johnnie's train to visit enginehouse wounded father. Johnnie sees Annabelle pointedly fuss with Annabelle brother's medals. When the train stops at Big Shanty for breakfast, Anderson and Anderson's men get off on the side away from the station. Annabelle gets into one of the boxcars to retrieve money from Annabelle trunk. The men remove the coupling pin between the boxcars and the coaches, get aboard, and start the engine. men discover Annabelle, and have to take Annabelle. Johnnie calls for others to follow Johnnie, as Johnnie runs after Johnnie's train, but others soon give up running. The Yankee spies tie up Annabelle. spies stop to cut the telegraph wires, and back at Big Shanty, the operator notices the line go dead. Johnnie stops at a handcar shed, and only then notices that no one has followed Johnnie. But Johnnie gets the handcar going. The spies remove a rail and jam stones in the guardrail. Johnnie falls off the handcar, which runs off the track and smashes down an embankment. The General speeds past Kingston, where the Texas waits on a siding. Johnnie sees a bicycle, which Johnnie leaps on, but bicycle doesn't work well along the rough roadbed. On the General, Capt. Anderson unpacks a Confederate uniform. Johnnie runs into Kingston and shouts for help. Soldiers pile onto the flatcar behind the Texas. Johnnie pulls the pin behind the flatcar to leave the rest of the train, but the flatcar is not coupled to the locomotive, and when flatcar speeds away flatcar does not notice the flatcar full of soldiers is left behind. By the time Johnnie notices Johnnie is alone, Johnnie sees a railroad mortar on a siding. The Yanks have stopped for water and wood. Johnnie is pulling the mortar car. The spies see Johnnie, and pull away without shutting off the water, and Johnnie gets an unexpected shower. Capt. Anderson won't stop and fight because Anderson assumes spies are outnumbered. spies chop through the rear wall of the end boxcar. Back on the mortar car, Johnnie loads one handful of powder, wadding, and a cannonball into the mortar, aimed to arc over the engine and hit the spies. He lights the fuse, and hurries back over the tender to the engine. The mortar fires, and sends the cannonball in a short arc right into the cab. Johnnie rolls cannonball out of the cab and returns to the mortar. As Johnnie prepares another shot, there is a huge explosion beside the track back down the line. This time Johnnie puts the whole canister of powder in the gun. In hurrying back to the cab, Johnnie's foot gets caught in the coupling bar, and dislodges cab. When Johnnie finally gets Johnnie's foot unstuck, the bar falls down and bangs against the crossties. The jostling makes the mortar lower until The points right at Johnnie, who has now got Johnnie's foot caught in a loop of chain. Johnnie gets free, and scrambles all the way to the cowcatcher. The two trains enter an Scurve, and are at just the right places when the mortar fires that the shot misses the Texas and explodes just behind the spies. The Yanks release the rear boxcar to leave two in Johnnie's way. Johnnie pushes boxcar onto a passing siding and proceeds. Busy feeding the fire, Johnnie doesn't notice that the boxcar continues to roll to the end of the siding and back onto the main track. Johnnie can't figure out how the boxcar got in front of Johnnie again. From the remaining boxcar the Yanks drop timbers across the rails. Johnnie, looking for a cloth to handle a leaky valve, doesn't see when the boxcar hits one of the timbers and is derailed out of the way. Johnnie can't figure out why the boxcar is now gone. Now Johnnie can see the timbers on the track. Johnnie slows the engine, and runs ahead to lift the first one. But Johnnie stumbles, and falls back onto the moving cowcatcher, holding the timber. With adroit timing, Johnnie uses cowcatcher to hit the next one out of the way. The Yanks throw a switch to a spur track, and lift Annabelle over the tender to the engine cab. Johnnie, occupied with firewood again, sees just in time to stop before the end of the spur track. Johnnie backs out of the siding, and starts the engine forward, but the wheels slip. Johnnie gets down to throw dirt onto the rails. Johnnie doesn't notice when the wheels get a grip and the engine pulls away. Johnnie has to run to jump on the back of the tender. The Yanks have started a fire in the remaining boxcar, and they leave fire in a covered bridge. Johnnie arrives in time to push time out. But there is so much smoke in the cab that Johnnie retreats to the tender deck, where Johnnie sits on the water hatch, not having noticed the lid is not on. Johnnie finally diverts the burning car onto a siding. Johnnie is so busy chopping wood on the tender Johnnie does not notice the Confederate army retreating. The Union army now passes, and Capt. Anderson removes Anderson's Confederate uniform. Johnnie finally notices the Union soldiers, and crouches down on the floor of the cab. The General passes under a trestle, and loops around to stop on the trestle above. When Johnnie passes below, the Yanks drop timbers down on Johnnie. Some land on the tender, providing fuel. But Capt. Anderson gets a good look, and says, There is only one man on that engine. Johnnie stops, and gets off to hide in the woods. look starts to rain. When night falls, Johnnie climbs through the window of a house and takes food from the dining table. When a number of Union officers enter, Johnnie hides under number, and hears them planning to get supply trains across the Rock River bridge so the army can attack the Confederates the next day. One officer's cigar burns a hole in the tablecloth, and Johnnie is able to see when Annabelle is brought in and locked in the next room. The officers leave. Johnnie knocks out a sentry with a log and steals Johnnie's uniform. Johnnie knocks out another sentry with Johnnie's rifle butt, and climbs in the window of Annabelle's room. Johnnie gets Annabelle through the window, and leads Annabelle into the forest. They encounter a bear, and both get stuck in a bear trap. Johnnie keeps losing Annabelle, so Johnnie decides They should stay in one place until dawn. The next morning, Johnnie sees Johnnie's locomotive. Johnnie empties a large sack of boots and stuffs Annabelle into the bag. Then Johnnie realizes one of his own shoes has come off and Johnnie has to find one among all those on the ground. Johnnie joins a line of soldiers loading the boxcar behind the General. Johnnie stands where Annabelle can reach to uncouple line from the rest of the train, then puts Annabelle into the boxcar as a bag of supplies. Johnnie cringes and covers Johnnie's eyes when Johnnie sees a crate and a barrel tossed in after Annabelle. Johnnie joins the line loading firewood, knocks out the officer in the cab, and starts the engine, heading back south. Johnnie stops outside of town, loops a rope over a telegraph pole, and ties rope to the boxcar. When Johnnie pulls away, the pole and wire are pulled down, and the telegraph line is cut. Johnnie chops the rope, leaving the pole across the track. From the tender, Johnnie chops through the front wall of the boxcar, climbs in, and searches for Annabelle. Johnnie finds Annabelle among all the freight only when Johnnie steps on the sack Annabelle is in. Then Johnnie has to help Annabelle get across to the tender. Johnnie stops to throw fence rails onto the tender for firewood, but Johnnie has some difficulty getting them to stay there. Meanwhile, the Yanks have given chase with the Texas and another engine. them have to stop to get the telegraph pole out of the way. Annabelle takes what is left of the rope, and ties rope across the track between two young pine trees. Johnnie almost leaves without Annabelle. When Annabelle shows Johnnie what Annabelle has done, Johnnie demonstrates how ridiculously flimsy rope is. But the Yanks are coming, and they scramble into the engine cab and start off. The rope pinions the soldiers riding the Texas and the two trees are uprooted and get caught up in the siderods. Annabelle's arrangement has succeeded in forcing the pursuers to stop once more. Johnnie knocks out the whole back wall of the boxcar. The Yanks have to stop again to clear wall off the track. Johnnie slows pursuers down by tossing all the freight onto the track out the open back. In the cab, the Union officer is just regaining consciousness. Johnnie returns just in time, knocks Johnnie out with a wellaimed log, and takes Johnnie's pistol. pursuers stop at a water tank. Johnnie does not notice Johnnie has pulled the spout away from the supply pipe. When Johnnie opens the valve, Annabelle is knocked down by the deluge. Johnnie replaces the spout, and Annabelle gets more water over Annabelle. They leave, the water still flowing, and water drenches the officers on both the chasing trains. Annabelle feeds the fire. Annabelle sees a log with a big hole in log, and rejects log, tossing log out of the cab. Johnnie can't believe log. The Yanks plan to couple to the rear of the boxcar. Annabelle sweeps the cab Johnnie tosses the broom. Annabelle feeds the fire with kindling Johnnie picks up a sliver and hands fire to Annabelle. Annabelle tosses fire in the firebox. Johnnie shakes Annabelle, then kisses Annabelle. The Yanks catch up, and couple to the rear of the boxcar. At the forward end, Johnnie uncouples end. The Yanks fire at Johnnie. They switch the boxcar into a siding, then back out onto the main track. The second train smashes into They, knocking down officers. They just get reseated when the train starts with a lurch, and They tumble again. Johnnie fastens a chain between the tender and some switch points. Johnnie has Annabelle start the engine, and the chain deforms the switch points. But Annabelle cant stop the engine. Johnnie runs downhill to meet Annabelle where the track passes below, but Annabelle gets the locomotive reversed, and Johnnie has to scramble back up the hill. They meet the Yanks at the broken switch, where the two Yank trains end up on an elevated spur track, smashing again, allowing Johnnie and Annabelle to get away. Johnnie sticks the end of a fence rail in the fire. Johnnie stops in the middle of the Rock River bridge, and piles firewood on the ties behind the tender. Meanwhile, the Yank officers can't figure out how to fix the switch so officers can continue the pursuit, and a Union army is approaching the rendezvous at the bridge. Johnnie pours kerosene from the headlamp onto the firewood. Annabelle knocks the burning fence rail off the tender, and Johnnie is trapped on the far side of the fire in the middle of the bridge. Johnnie jumps over the fire just as Annabelle moves the engine forward, and Johnnie falls through a gap into the river. The Yank officers are still ineptly dealing with the broken switch. Johnnie hails a Confederate picket, and is fired at. Annabelle points out that Johnnie is still wearing the Yankee uniform, so Johnnie changes. officers pull into Marietta, with the whistle blasting, and Johnnie runs to the Division Headquarters to warn officers of the attack. The General leads the army out of town, and Johnnie and Annabelle find themselves in the middle of a stampede of traffic. Annabelle sees Annabelle wounded father, and Johnnie is left in the deserted street. father finds a sword belt and pistol, straps Johnnie on, and follows the army. The Yank officers are still trying to fix the switch. A locomotive engineer pushes engineer's way through officers and does a neat, quick fix using an ax. The two engines reach the Rock River bridge at the same time as the Union army arrives. The General says, That bridge is not burned enough to stop you, and my men will ford the river. The Texas proceeds onto the bridge, the span collapses, and the engine crashes into the river. The Confederates surprise the Union army, and a fight begins. Johnnie is near an officer, and Johnnie imitates Johnnie's commanding gestures, but Johnnie's sword keeps coming apart. Johnnie stands near a gun battery, where a sharpshooter keeps picking off the artillerymen. Finally Johnnie's broken sword is effective. At Johnnie's commanding swing, the blade comes off again and spears the sharpshooter. Johnnie tries firing the unmanned cannon. Johnnie has to yank the firing lanyard so hard that the gun tilts straight up before firing. Johnnie retreats, but the shot lands in the river, blowing a dam. The surge of water catches the Yankee infantry in the river, forcing them to retreat. Johnnie directs the other artillerymen to fire at officers on the remaining train. artillerymen retreat, and the whole army retreats. Johnnie directs another shot that derails the last car, stopping the retreating supply train. Johnnie saves a battle flag, and mounts a rock, inadvertently stepping on an officer who was observing from a cleft. The victorious army marches back into town, with Johnnie among those leading. Johnnie peels off and sits on the rear of Johnnie's locomotive. When Johnnie goes into the cab, Johnnie finds the forgotten Yank officer just waking up. Johnnie escorts Johnnie to Division Headquarters and hands Johnnie over to the General. After a brief explanation, the General has Johnnie remove the uniform that does not belong to Johnnie, as Annabelle and Annabelle father watch. The General then gives General an officers coat and the Yankees surrendered sword. General poses for Annabelle and is enlisted as a Lieutenant. Johnnie takes Annabelle to the General, and Annabelle sit together on the siderod. Johnnie's kiss is interrupted by the need to salute a passing soldier... then another... and another. Then a whole regiment approaches, so Johnnie repositions so Johnnie can kiss Annabelle while Johnnie pumps Johnnie's hand up and down in salute after salute.