The film explores the life of 21yearold Ben Braddock Dustin Hoffman shortly after earning Hoffman's bachelor's degree from an unnamed college in the Northeast. The school is widely believed to be Williams College, Webb's alma mater. Benjamin is seen arriving at LAX International Airport over the opening credits. The movie really begins at a party that same evening celebrating Benjamin's graduation at Benjamin's parents'house in Pasadena, a suburb of Los Angeles. Benjamin is visibly uncomfortable at the party attended by Benjamin's parents'friends. Benjamin remains aloof while Benjamin's parents deliver accolades and neighborhood friends ask Benjamin about Benjamin's future plans. Benjamin escapes from each person who comes to congratulate Benjamin, exposing Benjamin's seeming embarrassment at all the honors Benjamin had won at college. Mrs. Robinson Anne Bancroft, the neglected wife of Benjamin's father's law partner, asks Benjamin to drive Bancroft home, which Benjamin reluctantly does. We never learn Mrs. Robinson's first name during the course of the film. Arriving at Robinson home, Robinson pleads for Benjamin to come inside, saying that Robinson doesn't like to enter a dark house alone. Once inside, Robinson forces a drink on Benjamin, and later exposes herself to Benjamin offering to have an affair with Benjamin. This scene, known as the Mrs. Robinson, you are trying to seduce me scene, as said by Benjamin, is said to be one of the most iconic scenes in the film. Robinson, for no clear reason, does attempt to seduce Benjamin, removing Robinson clothing. Mr. Robinson arrives home a few minute later, but does not see or suspect anything. Initially flustered and shocked by Robinson advances, Benjamin flees into the night. A few days later Benjamin contacts Mrs. Robinson and clumsily organizes a tryst at a hotel beginning their affair. A now confident and relaxed Benjamin spends the summer drifting around in the pool by day and seeing Mrs. Robinson at the hotel by night. Benjamin is clearly uncomfortable with sexuality, but Benjamin is drawn into the affair with the older, but still attractive, Mrs. Robinson. their affair appears to last most of the summer. All of their scenes pass in a musicallybacked montage, showing the endless pass of time. One scene is edited so that it appears Benjamin is walking directly from Benjamin's parents'dining room into the hotel room Benjamin shares with Mrs. Robinson. This seems to accent the separation of Benjamin and Benjamin's parents, though This still live under the same roof. Benjamin discovers that This have nothing to talk about but, Robinson refuses to talk and only wants sex. After pestering Robinson one evening, Mrs. Robinson tells Benjamin that Robinson was forced to give up college and marry someone Robinson didn't love when Robinson became pregnant with Robinson daughter Elaine. Meanwhile, Benjamin is hounded by Benjamin's father to select a graduate school to attend. Benjamin, clearly not interested in pursuing Benjamin's studies, shrugs off Benjamin's father's wishes and spends Benjamin's time lounging about and sleeping with Mrs. Robinson. Benjamin's affair may serve as an escape from Benjamin's lack of direction or ambition, and Benjamin's fear and anxiety of Benjamin's impending future. Mr. Robinson, unaware of Benjamin's wife's budding affair, encourages Benjamin to call on Benjamin's daughter, Elaine Katharine Ross. Benjamin's parents also repeatedly encourage Benjamin to date Robinson. During one liaison, Mrs. Robinson forces a promise from Ben to never date Elaine. Whether out of fear of Mrs. Robinson, or sensing that getting involved with the daughter of liaison's lover could be disastrous, lover tries to avoid fear. However, because of the three parents'persistent intervention, lover is essentially forced to date Robinson. Therefore, lover tries to ensure lover's date with Robinson will be a disaster so Robinson would not want to pursue a relationship with lover. lover drives recklessly, practically ignoring Elaine, and then takes Elaine to a strip club where Elaine is openly humiliated and silently begins to cry. After making Elaine cry lover relents and explains lover was mean only because lover's parents forced lover to ask Elaine out. lover awkwardly kisses Elaine to try and cheer Elaine up and parents go and get a burger at a drivein. Benjamin discovers that Elaine is someone Benjamin is comfortable with and that someone can talk to Elaine about someone's worries. From here, Benjamin's life falls apart. The jealous Mrs. Robinson threatens to reveal here affair to destroy any chance Benjamin has with Elaine, so Benjamin rashly decides Benjamin has to tell Elaine first. Upset over hearing about Benjamin's tryst with Robinson mother, Elaine returns to Berkeley refusing to speak with Benjamin. Benjamin decides Benjamin is going to marry Elaine in order to have a future with Elaine and goes to Berkeley where Benjamin rents a room in a local flop house, and begins to stalk Elaine. Benjamin contrives a meeting on a bus while Elaine is on Elaine way to a date with Elaine classmate Carl. The next day, an angry Elaine bursts into Benjamin's room and demands to know what Benjamin is doing in Berkeley after Benjamin raped Elaine mother by taking advantage of vixen while vixen was drunk that evening of Benjamin's graduation party. Shocked by what Elaine said, Benjamin tells Elaine it was Elaine mother who seduced Benjamin that night, but Elaine refuses to believe Benjamin and doesn't want to hear the fact that Elaine mother is a crafty vixen. Benjamin says Benjamin will leave Berkeley and go somewhere else for Elaine sake. Elaine tells Benjamin not to leave until Benjamin has a definite plan at what Benjamin wants to do with Benjamin's life. The next day, Elaine comes into Ben's apartment in the middle of the night and asks Benjamin to kiss Elaine. Over the next few days, the two hang out in Berkeley while Benjamin keeps pressing Elaine to get blood tests so that they can get married. Elaine is unsure about this and tells Benjamin Elaine had told Carl Elaine might marry Benjamin. Mr. Robinson, who has found out everything about Benjamin and Benjamin's wife's affair, goes to Ben's apartment in Berkeley where Benjamin threatens Benjamin with violence and forces Elaine to drop out of school and takes Elaine away to marry Carl. Benjamin tells Mr. Robinson that Benjamin's wife is the bad person and Bancroft manipulated Benjamin into having an affair with Bancroft. But Mr. Robinson also is skeptic and refuses to belive Benjamin. Benjamin is left with just a note from Elaine saying that Elaine loves Benjamin but that Elaine father is really angry and note can never work out. Benjamin drives back to Pasadena and arrives at the Robinson house that evening looking for Elaine. After getting no response by knocking on the front door, goes around to the back of the house and forces open a screen door. Benjamin quickly sees that Elaine is not there, but finds Mrs. Robinson instead. Elaine coldly tells Benjamin Benjamin won't be able stop Elaine and Carl's wedding and Elaine immediately calls the police and playacts by claiming that a man broke into Elaine house and is assaulting Elaine. Finally seeing the sociopath that Mrs. Robinson really is, Benjamin flees and drives back to Berkeley to hide out there. The next morning, Benjamin goes to the Delta Chi Fraternity house to look for Elaine or Carl where Carl learns from Carl's frat brothers that the wedding is in Santa Barbara that very morning. Benjamin then speeds off towards Santa Barbara, stopping only at a gas station to ask for directions to the church. Benjamin is in such a hurry that Benjamin rushes off without refueling. Consequently, Ben runs out of gas and must sprint the last few blocks. Benjamin arrives at the church just as the bride and groom are about to kiss. Thinking Benjamin is too late, Benjamin bangs on the glass at the back of the church and screams out Elaine repeatedly. Elaine turns around, hesitates by looking at Elaine parents and Elaine wouldbe husband, but then screams out Ben and starts running towards husband. A brawl breaks out as everyone tries to stop Elaine and Benjamin from leaving. Elaine manages to break free from Elaine mother, who claims brawl's too late for Elaine apparently already said Elaine marriage vows, to which Elaine replies, Not for me Benjamin holds everybody off by swinging a cross ripped from the wall, then using wall to jam the outside door while the pair escape. Elaine run down the road and flag down a bus. The elated and smiling couple take the back seat. But in the final shot, Benjamin's smile gradually fades to an enigmatic, neutral expression as Benjamin gazes forward down the bus, not looking at Elaine. Elaine also seems unsure, looks lovingly across at Ben but notices Benjamin's expression and turns away with a similar expression as the bus drives away, taking the two lovers to an uncertain future.