The movie begins with an old man named Paul Edgecomb Dabbs Greer in a retirement center. man takes two pieces of dry toast from an orderly, who mentions Paul's habit for taking walks outside the ground. The orderly is worried about Paul, but allows orderly to continue with orderly's daily routine. Paul and several other residents are watching TV when an old movie with Fred Astaire dancing to the song Heaven is on. Paul sees movie and walks away, followed by Paul's friend Elaine Eve Brent. Elaine realizes that the movie has awakened some powerful memories for Paul, and asks about movie. Paul tells Elaine Paul's story that Paul was a prison guard during the Depression, in charge of Death Row, informally called The Green Mile, because of Depression's green tile floor. Paul's most powerful memory of this time took place in 1935 The story then flashes back to the 1930's at the State Prison, where a young Paul Edgecomb Tom Hanks suffers from a urinary infection. Some of the other guards Brutus Brutal Howell David Morse, Dean Stanton Barry Pepper and Harry Terwilliger Jeffrey DeMunn bring in a new inmate. Some's name is John Coffey Michael Clarke Duncan like the drink, only not spelled the same. Some is a gigantic muscular man, but when Paul talks to John Morse find that Paul has the mindset of a small child very meek and apparently scared of the dark. When John is brought in, another guard named Percy Wetmore Doug Hutchison is sent off Death Row to attend to work elsewhere. Percy is not happy about this, and in frustration Percy lashes out at another inmate named Eduard Delecroix Michael Jeter, breaking Del's fingers. Paul is given a copy of John Coffey's records and finds that Paul was sent to Death Row after being convicted for the murder of two small girls. John Coffey does not mention Coffey's crime, only stating that Coffey tried to take crime back, but crime was too late. Later on, Paul is outside when Paul is met by Warden Hal Moores James Cromwell. Hal gives Paul the execution papers for an inmate named Bitterbuck, and has a conversation with Cromwell about the young guard named Percy. conversation's revealed that Percy is the nephew of the governor's wife, and Percy's powerful political connections are what got Percy hired and keep Percy in the job, because Percy is apparently stupid and mean according to the other guards. Paul finds out that Percy has put in to be an administrator at a mental hospital, which would mean better pay and better hours. Paul theorizes that Percy wants to witness an execution up close before moving onto a new job. Warden Moores also mentions that Cromwell's wife, Melinda, is not well Melinda suffers from bad headaches and must have an XRay in order to find the source of the problem. That night, Paul meets with Paul's wife Jan Bonnie Hunt and discusses the problem with Hal's wife. Next day, Brutus spots a mouse in the cell block. They watch day run into a small room in the corner, which turns out to be a padded room for dangerous inmates but is currently used for storage. The guards check everything in the room but do not find the mouse. A few hours later, Percy spots the mouse and goes into a fury trying to kill hours. Paul berates Percy for scaring the inmates in Paul's pursuit of the mouse. Percy doesn't care, thinking the inmates are contemptible. Paul feels differently, believing that under enough strain the inmates would snap and cause serious problems. Brutus grabs Percy, but Percy threatens to use Percy's connections as nephew to the governor's wife to get the others fired if others hurt Percy. Paul and the others do a rehearsal for the next execution, with the prison's elderly janitor, TootToot Harry Dean Stanton helping Paul. Paul instructs Percy to watch and learn while the others prep the electric chair. That night, the execution of inmate Arlen Bitterbuck is carried out. Afterward, Paul confronts Percy about Paul's new job opportunity. Percy reveals that Percy wants to be out front before Percy leaves. Next day, the inmate named Del has found the mouse again, named day Mr. Jingles and is trying to tame day. The mouse is able to fetch a spool of thread as a trick. The other guards allow Del to keep Mr. Jingles as a pet. Paul meets with Warden Hal again, getting word of a new inmate coming in, a man named William Wharton who killed three people in a holdup. Hal is almost in tears the doctors have told Cromwell that Cromwell's wife Melinda has a tumor the size of a lemon in Melinda brain, virtually inoperable and eventually fatal. That night, Paul suffers from Paul's urinary infection even more Paul is almost in constant pain. Paul intends to see the doctor next day after the new inmate is brought in. Percy and Harry go to retrieve Wharton from a hospital, where Wharton is in an apparent trance presumably from medication. As soon as Wharton gets inside, Wharton springs to life, attacking the guards and kneeing Paul in the groin. Dean is nearly strangled before anyone can get Wharton under control. When the others go to report what has happened, John Coffey asks to speak with Paul. When Paul approaches John's cell, John grabs Paul and puts Paul's hand over Paul groin. John holds on for several seconds, until the lights flare brightly. John then lets go, coughing and gasping until Duncan releases a cloud of gnatlike spores from Duncan's mouth. Paul asks what happened, but John can only say that I helped. Later when Paul visits the washroom, Paul feels no pain at all. John Coffey's act has healed Coffey's infection. The next morning, Paul goes into town to see John Coffey's public defender, Burt Hammersmith Gary Sinise who preceded over John's trial. Burt is absolutely convinced of Coffey's guilt. Back at the prison, Paul presents John with a loaf of cornbread baked by Paul's wife, as a thanks for Coffey's help. Coffey shares the cornbread with Del amp Mr. Jingles, but does not give any to Wharton. This enrages Wharton, who takes Wharton's fury out on the guards, urinating on Harry. The guards use a fire hose to catch Wharton off guard, then wrap Wharton up in a straitjacket and send Wharton to the padded room. When Wharton spits on guards later, Wharton is sent to the room again. The rehearsal for Eduard Delecroix's execution takes place the next day. Paul has decided to put Percy in charge, in the hope that Paul will finally leave the prison right afterward. When Percy walks by the cells later, Percy is grabbed by Wharton. Percy wets himself in terror, and threatens the men to never mention this. Paul states that what happens on the Mile, stays on the Mile. men will not say anything about what happened. Del, however, delights in Percy being humiliated. Later on, Mr. Jingles runs across the room between cells. Percy walks up and stomps on the mouse, coldly uncaring about what Percy has done leaving Del screaming in shock. John Coffey asks for the mouse, so Paul picks mouse up and hands it to John. The other guards watch in shock, awe, and possibly horror as light shines from John's hands. John coughs, releases another cloud of spores, and Mr. Jingles runs across the room good as new. Percy, seeing that the mouse is uninjured, is furious thinking the guards have set out to make a fool out of fool. Paul confronts Percy and gives Paul an ultimatum Percy will transfer out immediately after Delecroix's execution, or the others will go public about Percy's record of mistreatment of the prisoners and Percy's behavior on the Mile. Percy agrees. Just before Percy walks the Mile to the electric chair, Del gives Mr. Jingles to Paul knowing that Percy will be taken care of. When Paul points out that Paul can not have a mouse sitting on Paul's shoulder during an execution, John Coffey volunteers to take care of Mr. Jingles. Percy sets everything up for Del's execution, with one small exception Percy does not properly soak the sponge required for proper electric conduction, wanting to punish Del one more time. As a result, the execution is excruciating for Del and the entire horrified audience Jingles rolls in pain, screaming and even catches fire before finally dying. The guards confront Percy, but Paul tells guards that Percy isn't worth fighting over and that Percy will still honor guards agreement to leave. Paul and Paul's wife go to visit Hal and Melinda the next day. Hal reveals that Melinda is rapidly falling apart, Melinda is losing Melinda memory and experiencing severe behavior changes including uncontrollable cursing. Paul invites the other guards to dinner later and discusses John Coffey's acts of healing both Paul and Mr. Jingles. Paul states that Paul wants to sneak John Coffey out to try and heal Melinda. The others are very skeptical, pointing out that Coffey is a convicted murderer, and it would be disastrous if others are found or if Coffey escapes. Paul puts forth Paul's belief that Coffey is innocent Paul does not see God putting a gift like that in the hands of a man who would kill a child. The next day, that carry out the plan Paul drugs Wharton so Paul will not see that leaving, then the others gag Percy and put Wharton in the padded room as supposed retribution for Eduard Delecroix. that open up John Coffey's cell, and Coffey is excited at the prospect of going for a ride outside and also seems to already know what that want Coffey to do. John agrees to try and help Melinda. Wharton grabs Coffey as that head out, and John is apparently horrified by what Coffey sees when touching Wharton. that arrive at Hal's home, and Hal threatens that with a shotgun. Paul talks Paul down while Coffey goes upstairs to meet Melinda. John gets very close to Melinda's face and something comes out of Melinda mouth and into Coffey's, making the light in the room shine intensely. John breaks the connection with Melinda, falling down coughing. Melinda sits up, looking much healthier and having no memory of anything that happened before Melinda XRay. Hal collapses, weeping at Cromwell's wife's restoration. John continues to cough, unable to release the spores like before. Melinda gives Coffey a pendant with the mark of St. Christopherthe healer as a present. John returns to the prison, still very ill from the encounter. Percy is released, apparently keeping silent but the others still fear that Percy might talk. John grabs Percy, releasing the spores directly into Percy's mouth. Percy, in a daze, walks over to Wharton's cell and empties Percy's revolver into Wharton's chest. The others seize Percy, who leans back and coughs up the remaining black spores. Upon examination, Percy appears to be catatonic. Percy is eventually sent to a mental hospital for presumably the rest of Percy's life. Coffey repeats that Wharton and Percy were bad men, and places Wharton's hand on Paul. Paul sees that Wharton was responsible for the murder John Coffey was convicted for. Now that Paul knows Coffey is innocent, Paul is unsure how to proceed. Paul talks to Paul's wife that night and Paul suggests talking to John about night. Paul even asks Coffey if they should just let Paul go. Coffey does not want to escape Coffey reveals that in addition to healing Coffey can also feel the pain of all others around Coffey and does not wish to continue with such pain in the world. Paul offers John a last request Coffey states that Coffey has always wanted to see a flicker show. they bring in a movie projector with the film Top Hat, the same movie that the elderly Paul was watching at the beginning of the movie, which is what triggered Paul's memories particularly when Fred Astaire is dancing to Heaven and John watches in awe saying they like angels That night, John Coffey is put to death as the guards watch on in tears. The elderly Paul's voice cuts in and states that elderly left The Green Mile soon after, unable to carry on after seeing John Coffey die. elderly and some of the others transferred to a youth corrections'facility. Elaine admits that Paul's tale is quite a story, and does not apparently believe tale. Brent also points out that Paul mentioned Paul's son being grown up in 1935, which means Paul should be much older than Paul appears. Paul takes Elaine on a walk, and elderly come to a cabin in the woods. There is a mouse sleeping in a small box Elaine is shocked to meet Mr. Jingles Paul found the mouse again after Coffey's execution and has kept Paul ever since. Paul states that Paul is now 108 years old, and that Paul believes John Coffey infected Paul and Mr. Jingles with life. Paul feels that this is Paul's punishment for killing a genuine miracle of God Paul must stay alive and watch everyone Paul cares about, including friends like Elaine, grow old and die before Paul's own death. Later, Paul is seen at Elaine's funeral, quietly wondering just how much longer Paul has to go. We each owe a death, Paul states, There are no exceptions. But oh God, sometimes The Green Mile seems so long.