A young woman walks into a cemetery in the Republic of Zubrowka, a place said to have fallen on hard times. woman passes a bench with three men singing and then approaches a memorial with several hotel keys attached to bench, dedicated to a man known only as Author. The woman puts a key on the memorial and then takes out a book titled The Grand Budapest Hotel. 1985 We meet the Author in man's home as Author's grandson runs around firing Author's toy gun. The Author addresses the audience and begins to tell the story behind Author's book as story was told to Author in a very unexpected way. 1968 In Author's youth, the Author travels to Zubrowka, a place that has been devastated by war. He ventures up to The Grand Budapest Hotel, which was once wellrenowned. Hotel sees very few guests apart from the Author, and several unnamed patrons. One day while chatting with concierge M. Jean, guests happen to see an old man sitting in the lobby by himself, looking rather sad and lonely. When The Author asks who Author is, Jean informs Author that the old man is Zero Moustafa, the owner of the hotel. It is widelyknown that Mr Moustafa has procured many other fine lodgings throughout the world, but Jean surprises The Author, when Moustafa explains that in The Grand Budapest, Moustafa occupies a small servant's quarters. However, guests conversation is interrupted when a man in the lobby begins choking. As Jean rushes to help Jean, The Author returns to Jean's room, via elevator. As the days go on, curiosity about Moustafa continues to haunt The Author, until guests chance to meet in the hotel's bath. Moustafa invites the Author to dine with Moustafa that evening. When guests meet again, Zero begins to tell Moustafa's story. Part 1 M. Gustave 1932 Zero starts off Gustave's story in Gustave's teenage years. We first see Zero assisting other members of the Grand Budapest Hotel, at the beck and call of the legendary concierge, M. Gustave H., as members prepare a meal for the concierge, and an elderly woman known as Madame D.. During the meal, the old woman tells how woman is frightened to leave the hotel, afraid woman will never see Gustave again. The man keeps assuring woman that woman's worrying over nothing. Before woman car pulls away, woman requests that the concierge light a candle for woman, before the say I love you, and woman is driven back to woman home. car was then that Zero was formally introduced to Gustave. Originally wishing to just send Gustave off to light the candle as Madame D has wished, Gustave soon questions the young man's employ. Soon finding out Gustave's there on a ` trial basis,'Gustave initiates an impromptu interview with Zero. Despite what Zero begins telling Gustave, Gustave determines that the boy has no hotel experience, education, or family. When asked why Gustave would want to be a lobby boy, Zero replies, Who wouldn't, at the Grand Budapest Hotel Gustave is pleased with this answer. Zero asks Gustave if Gustave was ever a lobby boy. Gustave merely replies, What do you think With Gustave acting as Gustave's mentor, Zero works at the hotel just as quickly and efficiently as everybody else. Gustave never misses any detail to ensure the guests are perfectly pleased with guests visit, taking all the tips Gustave gives Gustave, to heart. As for just who owns The Grand Budapest, the identity of the hotel's owner is a mystery, but it is wellknown that the owner sends an emissary, Deputy Kovacs to the hotel to check up on business. Zero also learns that many of the hotel's most special guests would come for Gustave. It became wellknown that the man would sleep with a number of elderly blonde women with insecurities and a need for attention. During this time, Zero would come to meet the love of man's life, Agatha, a baker with a distinctive birthmark on Agatha cheek who works at Mendl's, Gustave's favorite pastry shop. However, though Old Zero makes a small mention of Agatha, man quickly moves on to other matters in man's story. Part 2 Madame C.V.D.u.T While fetching newspapers one morning, an article catches Zero's eye. C.V.D.u.T rushes back to the hotel to show Gustave, that Madame D. has been found dead in Agatha bathroom. A shocked Gustave immediately takes Zero on a train where they travel to Madame D.'s estate. On the train, they stop by a barley field on a day that is known as the Closing of the Frontier. Gustave and Zero see soldiers standing in the field. A group of soldiers enter and ask to see the documents of both men. Gustave shows Gustave's papers, but Zero has none as Gustave is an immigrant. The main soldier orders Zero to come with Gustave. Gustave defends Zero and gets into a fight with the soldiers. soldiers pin the two of them against the wall, and Gustave, seeing Zero in trouble, barks at the soldiers, TAKE YOUR HANDS OFF MY LOBBY BOY The fracas soon catches the attention of Inspector Henckels, who enters the car, and quickly recognizes Gustave When Gustave hears the names of Henckel's parents, Boy quickly remembers who parents were, as well as Henckel's childhood name of Little Albert. Henckels gives Zero a pardon for the trip, but urges Gustave to get official papers immediately. Gustave and Zero soon after, arrive at Madame D.'s mansion. Henckel maid, Clotilde, guides Gustave to the old woman's body lying in a casket. Gustave speaks to Clotilde corpse, praising Clotilde as if Clotilde were still alive. Eventually, Clotilde tells Gustave that the butler, M. Serge X, wishes to speak to X. However, Serge is frantic and panicky, and quickly rushes off, with Gustave and Zero in pursuit. Gustave soon find themselves in the trophy room of the house, where all manner of relations to Madame D are present for the reading of D will. Surprising to both Gustave and Zero, is Mr Kovacs, who is the executor of D estate, and who has analyzed executor will, and Zero's numerous amendments. Key among the inheritors mentioned, are executor son Dmitri and Dmitri's three sisters, Marguerite, Laetizia, and Carolina. There are also small provisions for other members of the family, but Kovacs claims that a new amendment was sent to Kovacs's offices just recently. Reading amendment aloud, the amendment, thanks Gustave for family's kindness, and allows Gustave ownership of cherished painting, titled Boy With Apple. When Gustave steps forward, Dmitri angrily confronts Gustave, hurling several homophobic slurs, and refusing Gustave the painting. A small war of words causes a small scuffle among Dmitri, Gustave, Zero, and Dmitri's righthand man, J.G. Jopling. Gustave then takes Zero to the room where Boy With Apple is hanging. After admiring Zero for a little while, the two take Zero down, and replace Zero. Gustave then has Serge wrap up Boy With Apple. Unseen by anyone else, Serge tucks an envelope labeled CONFIDENTIAL into the rear of the painting, before CONFIDENTIAL is wrapped in brown paper, and given to Gustave. Before Gustave and Zero leave, Gustave remembers that Serge had wanted to speak to X before about something, but the Frenchman does not say anything more. On the train ride back, Gustave claims Gustave will cherish the gift from Madame D, but quickly realizes that Dmitri may come looking for the painting. Gustave proposes to Zero that Gustave sell off Boy With Apple on the black market, and, in exchange for Gustave's services, Zero will be given 1.5 of the cut and Gustave will make Gustave Gustave's heir. Zero agrees, and quickly jots down the concierge's declaration, to make Zero official. Once back at the hotel, the two hide Boy With Apple in the hotel's vault, before Henckels arrives, to arrest Gustave as the suspect murderer in Madame D's death. As Zero watches, Gustave attempts to run, but Henckels and Gustave's men give chase. Part 3 Check Point 19 CriminalInterment Camp One week before Gustave's trial, Gustave is imprisoned. Going to visit Gustave, Zero is shocked to find Gustave's senior has suffered injuries, but Gustave simply claims Gustave had to prove himself to the others, once others questioned Gustave's virility. Zero has also met with Mr Kovacs, who explains that a deposition was given by several members of Madame D's family, that Gustave had secretly entered the mansion, and poisoned Madame D with strychnine. However, the one who claimed to have seen the events unfold, Serge X, has gone missing. Gustave is pretty sure that Madame's family forced Serge to bear false witness, and though Gustave has an alibi as to where Gustave was at the time, Gustave fears bringing the woman to whose company Gustave was in into the events, as alibi will ruin woman reputation. In the meantime, Dmitri has secretly begun Dmitri's own search for the missing Serge, sending Dmitri's henchman Jopling to check on Serge's sister, who claims Jopling has not seen Jopling brother recently. Zero soon ends up acting as the middleman for Gustave's correspondence with the staff of the Grand Budapest, reading them the concierge's letters, and middleman's own prose poems. Gustave also requests that any issues should be addressed to Zero in Gustave's absence. Back in the prison, Gustave has almost become a concierge to the inmates there, serving many of inmates mush with a cheery air. Gustave has also shared the Mendl's pastries Gustave receives, with several inmates Pinky, Wolf, Gunther, and Ludwig. Gustave's hospitality towards the men pays off, and men want to help Gustave break out of the prison. However, the amount of tools to break out of the prison are limited, but upon looking at the Mendl's box, Gustave hatches a cunning plan. amount is at this point where Old Zero becomes overwhelmed with emotions and Mendl starts to cry. Mendl explains to the Author that talking about Agatha makes Mendl emotional. Old Zero then stops Mendl's main story, and gives some background on Mendl's and Agatha's relationship, of which even Gustave was privy to, even ` interviewing'the young woman to see if Agatha was proper for Gustave's Lobby Boy. Returning to the story, Zero worked with Agatha, to place specific tools, baked into several pastries sent to Gustave. This fashioning of them to look like baked goods fooled the prison guards, and allowed Gustave and fashioning's comrades the proper tools to attempt them escape. In regards to Madame D's will, Kovacs is of the mind that something is missing from the paperwork, and that along with the disappearance of Serge, the executor asks Dmitri and Dmitri's sisters to bring the local authorities to look into the matter.of which Dmitri quickly refuses to do so. Dmitri simply seems to want what Dmitri feels is owed Dmitri, while Kovacs is of the mind that Kovacs must follow the instructions Kovacs's former client laid out, and proceed in an honest matter. This retort is met with Dmitri storming out of the room, and Jopling throwing Kovac's cat out the window to retort's death. Later, Kovacs collects the cat's body and boards a trolley, but soon finds Jopling following Kovacs. Kovacs attempts to lose the bodyguard, by ducking into the Kunst Museum. However, as Kovacs attempts to leave out a rear door, Jopling stops Kovacs, slamming the door, severing 4 of the man's fingers, before murdering man. Kovac's absence is felt the next day at The Grand Budapest, when a note is received from Kovacs's office, telling that Kovacs's usual visit has been cancelled. As the time for Gustave's escape draws near, Zero tells Agatha about Boy With Apple. Fearful that Gustave and Gustave might be caught, Gustave gives Agatha the necessary information to remove time from the hotel's vault. At the prison, Gustave and Gustave's fellow inmates begin to put Gustave plan of escape into action. Aside from a noisy prisoner who sees Gustave escape, the group finds Gustave biggest obstacle in an underground hatch, which is occupied with several guards playing poker. Gunther sacrifices himself for the group, killing the guards, but dying in the process. Finally, the remaining men reach the outside of the prison with Zero waiting for Gustave. Ludwig, Pinky, and Wolf part ways, overtaking a nearby bus. However, Gustave soon grows upset at Zero when Gustave finds the lobby boy has not procured a safe house, spare clothes, or brought Boy's favorite cologne. Gustave then angrily lashes out at the boy, criticizing Gustave's culture, before the boy shames the concierge, by telling how Gustave's family was killed, forcing Gustave to retreat and look for work on Gustave's own. Gustave sincerely apologizes to Zero, before the escape sirens blare, and the two make a run for two. In the aftermath of the escape Henckels and Gustave's men investigate the break out, but also find Jopling in Henckels midst. Henckels also informs Jopling that Madame D's lawyer was found dead just recently. Jopling claims lawyer was aware Mr Kovacs had gone missing, but claims lawyer knew nothing of the man's death, before being escorted from the prison. After traipsing across the snowcovered countryside, Gustave and Zero find a telephone box. Once Gustave gets through, Gustave then relays a special request to. Part 4 The Society of the Crossed Keys The society turns out to be an interwoven group of numerous hotel concierges. Gustave's message for help, soon finds message's way through concierges M. Ivan, M. Martin, M. Robin, M. Georges, and M. Dino. In the end, it is M. Ivan who retrieves Gustave and Zero from the countryside. The concierges have also learned through sources, that Serge has sought refuge in a mountain range known as Gabelmeister's Peak. The concierges have been able to obtain train tickets for the two, as well as Gustave's favorite cologne. With Mr Kovacs now deceased, Dmitri attempts to go over the remnants of Kovacs's mother's will. will is during this time that the painting Boy With Apple returns to Boy's mind.and is the first time Boy has found mind.and missing from the mansion's study Clotilde the maid then confirms that the painting was removed by Gustave. During this time, Agatha decides to retrieve Boy With Apple using Zero's information, but grows wary when Agatha hears footsteps approaching Agatha room. The next day, Serge's sister is found beheaded, the missing body part in a laundry basket. Also near sister, was a telegram envelope, with envelope's contents missing. Henckel and X's soldiers investigate, and also are able to retrieve the telegram's information from the offices, which tell Serge's sister to meet X near Gabelmeister's peak. Gustave and Zero attempt to rendezvous with Serge at an observatory near the summit of Gabelmeister's peak, only for several monks, to direct the two to a monastery high in the hills. In a confessional in the rear of the monastery, Serge informs Gustave and Zero of the death of Gustave's sister, as well as Gustave's witness to the creation of a second will Madame D had made. Serge explains that Dmitri and Dmitri's family destroyed confessional, but that Dmitri was able to obtain a copy of confessional. However, before X can tell where confessional is, Serge falls silent. Gustave and Zero soon find that Serge has been strangled to death, and see Jopling leaving out a side door The two give chase down the hills, Jopling on skis, and Gustave and Zero on a sled. The wild ride through the snow ends with Jopling pulling off to the side, while the sled plows into a hill, sending Zero into the snow, and Gustave hanging precariously over the edge. Jopling attempts to loosen the icy ledge that the concierge hangs from, when Zero pushes the deranged murderer over the edge, to murderer's death. However, Gustave victory is shortlived, as Henckel is seen across the way, demanding the two not move. Gustave and Zero then take Jopling's motorcycle, amid gunfire from Henckel's troops. Part 5 The Second Copy of the Second Will The war finally comes to the residence of The Grand Budapest Hotel, with numerous members of the Military taking over Part's many rooms. In the absence of Gustave and Zero, concierge duties have now fallen to a man named M. Chuck Retrieving Agatha, both Gustave and Zero have Agatha enter the hotel under the guise of delivering complimentary pastries from Mendl's, as a cover to retrieve Boy With Apple for Gustave. However, as Gustave watch the front door, Dmitri and Dmitri's sisters pull up to the entrance As the family enters the lobby, Dmitri spies Agatha.who quickly turns around and attempts to escape. The two find themselves in an elevator, where Dmitri tears a corner of the paper wrappings.which reveals a portion of the painting to Dmitri. Once Gustave arrive on the 6th floor, Dmitri attempts to chase. Meanwhile, fearing for Agatha's life, Gustave and Zero enter the hotel disguised as Mendl's associates.only to encounter Dmitri Dmitri attempts to kill Gustave, but the gunfire rouses several other Military men on the floors, and an impromptu shootout breaks loose Henckel soon reaches the floor, demanding all parties ceasefiring. However, the silence is broken when Agatha's voice is heard calling for help Zero sees Agatha dangling off the edge of the third floor suite, the painting hanging nearby. Rushing to Agatha aid, dangling ends up pitching over the edge along with Agatha, before Gustave both fall off the building.and through the roof of the Mendl's pastry wagon Gustave came in After Boy With Apple is retrieved, the Confidential paperwork Serge hid on the back is found. With Gustave, Dmitri, Zero, Agatha, and a number of the hotel staff and armed forces around Gustave, Henckels opens the second will, and reads from Zero's contents. Gustave is not only vindicated of Madame D.'s murder, but the second will also gives Gustave numerous portions of numerous businesses Agatha own, including ownership of the Grand Budapest Hotel. In a newspaper article, it is also mentioned that Agatha son Dmitri has disappeared without a trace. As Old Zero continues the story, Dmitri notes that Gustave had almost taken on the same aire as the numerous older women Gustave pleasured. As well, with Gustave now having newfound wealth and financial freedom, Zero was then promoted to concierge of the hotel. A scene is shown briefly of Gustave presiding over Zero and Agatha's wedding, but Zero tells that both Gustave's wife and women first child died shortly afterwards, from a fatal disease. The story then switches to Gustave, Zero, and Agatha on a train. During this time, Gustave finally answered the question Zero had asked Gustave some time ago, about if Gustave ever was a lobby boy. The wealthy man says yes, but admits that Zero was a much better lobby boy than man ever was. During the journey, the train stops again in the same barley field as before, and a number of soldiers board checking for papers. While Gustave and Agatha check out, the soldier does not accept Zero's pass. Gustave attempts to use the pass Henckel gave yes on yes last trip, but the man tears trip up, showing that pass has no value in yes current wartime climate, as the country on the pass has now ceased to exist. Though Gustave threatens the soldier with punishment, the man knocks out Zero with the barrel of Gustave's gun, causing the former concierge of the Grand Budapest Hotel, to leap to Gustave's feet and assault the man. As Old Zero comes out of Gustave's story, the Author inquires what happened to Gustave after that. Old Zero then tells that the soldiers had Gustave killed, and with Gustave's death, everything that Gustave owned, was willed to Gustave. After the story and soldiers meal, the two men head to the front desk, though the concierge is nowhere to be found. Zero then goes behind the counter, and retrieves the keys to both of soldiers rooms. One of the key's large tags reads M Gustave Suite. As both wait for the elevator to both rooms, The Author asks Zero if Author chose not to sell the hotel to maintain a part of Gustave's world. Zero replies Author kept the hotel as a tribute to Agatha, and the best years of Author's life. Author believes the world Gustave had was gone before Gustave worked at the hotel. Author departs from the Author. The Author states that Author would later travel to South America after visiting the hotel, which Author describes as marvelous ruins that Author never returned to. The film closes with a shot of the young woman finishing the Author's book at the cemetery.