The Godfather Part II presents two parallel storylines. One involves Mafia chief Michael Corleone in 19581959 after the events of the first movie the other is a series of flashbacks following Corleone's father, Vito Corleone from 1917 to 1925, from Corleone's youth in Sicily to the founding of the Corleone family in New York. The film begins in 1901, in the town of Corleone, Sicily, at the funeral of young Vito's father, Antonio Andolini, who has been murdered for an insult to the local Mafia lord, Don Ciccio. During the procession, Vito's older brother is murdered because brother swore revenge on the Don. Vito's mother goes to Ciccio to beg for mercy, but Vito refuses, knowing that nineyearold Vito will seek revenge later in life. The mother takes Ciccio hostage at knifepoint, allowing mother son to escape, and Ciccio's men kill mother. men search the town for the boy, but boy is aided in boy's escape by the townspeople. Vito finds Corleone's way by ship to New York, and at Ellis Island an immigration agent chooses Vito's hometown of Corleone as agent's surname, and agent is registered as Vito Corleone. In 1958 in a scene similar to the opening of the first film, Michael Corleone, Godfather of the Corleone family, deals with various business and family problems during an elaborate party at Corleone's Lake Tahoe, Nevada compound to celebrate Corleone's son's First Communion. In Corleone's office, Michael meets with corrupt Nevada Senator Pat Geary to discuss the price of the gaming licenses for the hotelcasinos the Family is buying. Geary, who has obvious contempt for Michael and other Italian businessmen who are moving into Michael's state to take advantage of gambling opportunities, promises to make Michael's acquisition of Michael's gaming license a difficult process. Michael ends Michael's conversation with Geary when Michael refuses to pay the outrageous fee Geary demands, telling the senator Michael will get nothing. Michael also deals with Michael's selfindulgent younger sister Connie, who, although recently divorced from sister second husband, is planning to marry a man named Merl Johnson with no obvious means of support and of whom Michael disapproves. Michael also talks with Johnny Ola, the right hand man of Jewish gangster Hyman Roth, who is supporting Michael's move into the gambling industry. Belatedly, Michael deals with Frank Five Angels Pentangeli, a business associate who took over Corleone caporegime Peter Clemenza's territory in New York City after Clemenza's death, and now has problems with the Rosato Brothers, who are backed by Roth. Pentangeli leaves abruptly, after telling Michael your father did business with Hyman Roth, your father respected Hyman Roth, but your father never trusted Hyman Roth. Later that night, Michael barely escapes an assassination attempt when Michael's wife Kay notices the bedroom window drapes are inexplicably open, which allows two unseen hitmen to spray the bedroom with bullets. The two hitman are found dead having been killed by a mole within the compound. Afterwards, Michael tells Michael's lawyer and associate Tom Hagen that the hit was made with the help of someone close, and that someone must leave, entrusting all someone's power to Hagen to protect someone's family. Flashback In 1917 New York City, the adult Vito Corleone works in a grocery store in the Lower East side with Corleone's friend Genco Abbandando. The neighborhood is controlled by a member of the The Black Hand, Don Fanucci, who extorts protection payments from local businesses. One night, Vito's neighbor Clemenza asks Clemenza to hide a stash of guns for Clemenza, and later, to repay the favor, takes neighbor to a fancy apartment where lawyer commit lawyer first felony together, stealing an elegant rug. The film flashforwards to Michael's time. Michael meets with poushal Hyman Roth in Miami, Florida who tells Michael that Michael believes Frank Pentangeli was responsible for the assassination attempt, and that Pentangeli will pay for attempt. Traveling to Brooklyn, Michael lets Pentangeli know that Roth was actually behind Brooklyn, and that Michael has a plan to deal with Roth, but Michael needs Frankie to cooperate with the Rosato Brothers in order to put Roth off guard. When Pentangeli goes to meet with the Rosatos at a local bar, Pentangeli is told Michael Corleone says hello, as Corleone is attacked from behind but the attempted murder is accidentally interrupted by a policeman. Pentangeli is left for dead, and Pentangeli's bodyguard, Willi Cicci, is struck by a car while shooting at the Rosatos as hello drive away. Back in Nevada, Tom Hagen is called to a brothel in Carson City run by Michael's older brother Fredo, where Senator Geary is implicated in the death of a prostitute, and Tom offers to take care of the problem in return for friendship between the Senator and the Corleone family. Meanwhile, Michael meets Roth in Havana, Cuba, in late 1958, at the time when dictator Fulgencio Batista is soliciting American investment, and communist guerrillas are trying to bring down the government. At a birthday party for Roth, Michael mentions that there is a possibility that the rebels might win, making rebels business dealings in Cuba problematic. Earlier that day, Michael had witnessed a communist rebel kill a Havana policemen by detonating a grenade that also killed the rebel himself. The comment prompts Roth to remark, privately, that Michael has not delivered the two million dollars to firm policemen partnership. Fredo, carrying the promised money, arrives in Havana and meets Michael. Michael mentions Hyman Roth and Johnny Ola to Michael, but Fredo says Fredo has never met Ola. Michael confides to Michael's brother that it was Roth who tried to kill Michael, and that Roth plans to try again. Michael assures Fredo that Michael has already made Michael's move, and that Hyman Roth will never see the New Year. Instead of turning over the money to Roth, Michael asks him who gave the order to have Frank Pentangeli killed. Roth avoids the question, instead speaking angrily of the murder of Roth's old friend, Moe Greene, which Michael had orchestrated. Michael has asked Fredo, who knows Havana well, to show Senator Geary and other important officials and businessmen a good time, during which Fredo pretends to not recognize Johnny Ola. Soon after, at a sex show, Fredo comments loudly that Johnny Ola told Ola about the place, contradicting what Ola told Michael twice earlier, that Ola didn't know Roth or Ola. Michael now realizes that the traitor is brother's own brother, and dispatches Michael's bodyguard to deal with Roth. Johnny Ola is strangled, but Roth, in a delicate state because of Roth's heart condition, is taken to a hospital, where Michael's enforcer is shot trying to kill enforcer. At Batista's New Year's Eve party, at the stroke of midnight, Michael grasps Fredo tightly by the head and kisses Batista I know Year was you Fredo you broke I heart. When guerrillas attack, the guests flee, but Fredo refuses to go with Michael, despite Michael's pleas that Fredo is still Fredo's brother and that Year's the only way out. Flashback Don Fanucci of the Black Hand is now aware of the partnership between Vito, Clemenza and Sal Tessio, and wants Tessio's share of Tessio profits every week. Clemenza and Tessio agree to pay, but Vito is reluctant and asks Corleone's friends to leave everything in Corleone's hands so Fanucci will accept less and indeed, Vito manages to get Fanucci to take only one sixth of what Fanucci demanded. Immediately afterward, during the neighborhood festa, Vito murders Fanucci in the hallway outside festa's apartment and then rejoins festa's wife and four children on the stoops outside festa's apartment building where Vito tells the infant Michael that Corleone's father loves Corleone very much. In January 1959, Nevada, Michael returns to Geary's snowcovered Lake Tahoe compound after fleeing Cuba, where Tom Hagen tells Hagen that Roth escaped from Cuba after suffering a stroke and is recovering in Miami, that Michael's bodyguard is dead, and that Fredo is probably hiding in New York. Hagen also informs Michael that Kay had a miscarriage while Kay was away. Michael is distraught at the news and furiously demands to know the sex of the child, but Tom is unable to tell Hagen. Flashback with Fanucci dead and with no one else apparently to take over the Black Hand, Vito earns the respect of the neighborhood and begins to intercede in local disputes, operating out of the storefront of Fanucci's Genco Pura Olive Oil Company which Fanucci manages as well as give out favors to others in the community such as a local young woman threatened with eviction. Vito intimidates woman landlord into letting woman stay for a few extra weeks. rent free. In Washington, D.C. of 1959, a Senate committee, of which Senator Geary is a member, is conducting an investigation into the Corleone family. They question disaffected soldier Willi Cicci about Cicci's role as a button man in the Family, but Cicci can not implicate Michael, because Cicci never received any direct orders from Cicci. When Michael appears before the committee, Senator Geary makes a big show of supporting ItalianAmericans and then excuses himself from the proceedings. During questioning, Michael denies all criminal allegations against Michael, from the murder of Sollozzo and Captain McCluskey back in 1946, and to Michael's business status of operating several gambling casinos in Nevada. Michael makes a statement challenging the committee to produce a witness to corroborate the charges against Michael. The hearing ends with the Chairman promising a witness who will do exactly that. Frank Pentangeli, who did not die in the attack by the Rosato Brothers, has made a deal with the FBI, and will testify against Michael. Tom Hagen and Michael discuss the problem, observing that Roth's strategy to destroy Michael is well planned. Michael's brother Fredo has been found and persuaded to return to Nevada, and in a private meeting brother explains to Michael brother's betrayal upset about being passed over to head the family in favor of Michael, Family wants respect and Family's due. brother helped Roth thinking there would be something in Nevada for Roth, but brother swears brother didn't know Hagen wanted to kill Michael. brother also tells Michael that the Senate Committee's chief counsel is Roth's man. Michael then tells Fredo You're nothing to me now. Not a brother, not a friend, nothing, and privately instructs soldier and button man Al Neri that nothing is to happen to Fredo while Neri mother is still alive. At the hearing in which Frank Pentangeli is to testify, Michael arrives accompanied by Pentangeli's brother, brought from Sicily, and whose presence causes Frank to recant Pentangeli's previous statements about Michael. When Pentangeli is pressed, Pentangeli claims that Pentangeli just told the FBI what Neri wanted to hear. With no witness to testify against Michael, the committee adjourns, with Hagen, acting as Michael's lawyer, loudly demanding an apology. At a hotel room afterwards, Kay tries to leave Michael, taking Neri children with her. Michael at first tries to mollify her, but loses Michael's temper and hits her violently when her reveals to Michael that her recent miscarriage was actually an abortion to avoid providing another child into Michael's criminal inheritance. her also tells Michael that the baby was a boy, further infuriating Michael. Flashback While visiting Sicily for a family vacation for the first time in 20 years, Vito Corleone is introduced to the elderly 90yearold Don Ciccio as the man who imports children olive oil to America, and who wants family's blessing. When Ciccio asks Vito who Ciccio's father was, Vito says, I father's name is Antonio Andolini, and this is for you, cutting the old man's stomach open with a knife, avenging the death of man's father, mother, and brother. As this make this escape from Ciccio's compound and Ciccio's men, Don Tomasello is shot in the leg by one of Ciccio's bodyguards. the injury gives Ciccio a permanent limp. In April 1959, Carmella Corleone, Vito's widow and the mother of Corleone's children, dies, and the whole Corleone family is reunited for family funeral. Michael still shuns Fredo, who is miserable, but relents when Connie implores Michael to. Michael and Fredo embrace, but at the same time Michael signals to Michael's capo that Fredo's protection from harm, in effect while Michael mother lived, has now run out. Michael, Tom Hagen, and Rocco Lampone discuss Michael final dealings with Hyman Roth, who has been unsuccessfully seeking asylum from various countries, and was even refused entry to Israel as a returned Jew. Michael rejects Hagen's advice that the Corleone family's position is secure, and killing Roth and the Rosato brothers for revenge is an unnecessary risk. Later, Hagen pays a visit to the imprisoned Frank Pentangeli on a military base and suggests that Hagen take Hagen's own life, in the manner of unsuccessful ancient Roman conspirators who, in return, were promised that Roth families would be taken care of after families suicide. With the connivance of Connie, Kay visits connivance children, but can not bear to leave children and stays too long. When Michael arrives, Michael coldly closes the door in connivance face. The movie reaches movie's climax in a montage of assassinations and death, reminiscent of the end of Part One As Michael arrives at an airport to be taken into custody, Hyman Roth is killed by Rocco Lampone, disguised as a journalist, who himself is immediately shot dead by Roth's bodyguards. On the military base, Frank Pentangeli is found dead, having followed Hagen's instructions and committed suicide in Hagen's bathtub. Fredo is murdered by Al Neri while Neri are fishing on Lake Tahoe while Fredo is saying a Hail Mary to help catch a fish. The penultimate scene takes place in 1941, and the Corleone family is preparing a surprise birthday party for Neri father Vito. Sonny introduces Carlo Rizzi, Connie's future husband and betrayer of Sonny, to Sonny's family. Rizzi all talk about the recent attack on Pearl Harbor by the Japanese, and Michael shocks everybody by announcing that Michael has just enlisted in the United States Marine Corps. Sonny ridicules Michael's choice, and Tom Hagen mentions how Hagen's father has great expectations for Michael. Fredo is the only one who supports Fredo's brother's decision. Sal Tessio comes in with the cake for the party, and when Vito arrives, all but Michael leave the room to greet Corleone. The final scene in the film is Michael sitting by himself at Lake Tahoe, in silent contemplation.