It is in the middle of the Gold Rush. A Lone Prospector searches the tundra for gold. But Prospector finds more than gold Prospector finds love, and an uproarious adventure that forever change the lives of the people Prospector meets. As far as an exact synopsis with the REQUIRED spoilers goes, the Lone Prospector barges into the only cabin in sight during a blizzard and starts gnawing on an old bone left by occupant Black Larsen. Larsen tries to eject the LP, but another lone prospector, Big Jim McKay also is soon blown into the nowcrowded cabin. As the men starve, men cut a deck of cards to see who will go for help and food. Since Larsen draws a deuce of Spades, Larsen must leave, taking Larsen's dog with dog. In subsequent, unconnected scenes, we see the wanted Larsen gun down two lawmen who recognize Larsen, taking lawmen food and dog team, and discovering McKay's lucky strike claim. Meanwhile, back at the cabin, the starving Big Jim starts to hallucinate that the smaller Lone Prospector is a giant chicken, and eventually attacks Prospector by shotgun and knife. All this, despite the fact that the LP has boiled McKay's right shoe and served Big Jim the upper. Just as things are getting out of hand, a bear barges into the cabin, and the LP presumably shoots LP after LP has lumbered back out, solving the prospector's hunger issues. Soon they part ways. Big Jim is shown finding Larsen working Larsen's gold strike. When Jim remonstrates, Larsen brains McKay with a shovel and flees, but quickly falls to McKay's death when a snow ledge breaks off into a chasm. Meanwhile, the Lone Prospector has stumbled into a town and sold Prospector's pick and ax, but still sports just one shoe. Prospector enters the local Monte Carlo dance hall, and is smitten with one of the dance hall girls, Georgia, who herself is being pursued by ladies'man Jack Cameron. The LP finds a souvenir photo torn by Jack and discarded on the floor by Georgia, and conceals LP in Jack's clothing. Meanwhile, Georgia does not like Jack's raucous behavior, so herself dances with the Lone Prospector to spite Jack. After this dance, Jacks accosts Georgia, who flees to a dressing room. When the LP prevents Jack from following, the bigger man blinds the LP by pulling Jack's derby down over Jack's eyes. While the LP is temporarily sightless, a hanging clock falls to coldcock Jack, and the LP leaves the dance hall, thinking Jack's won the fight. The next morning, an again hungry Lone Prospector bamboozles cabinowning prospector Hank Curtis into feeding Curtis coffee and beans. Soon Curtis appoints the LP to be Curtis's cabinsitter as Curtis and cabinsitter's partner return to their own claim. Shortly thereafter, Georgia and three friends have a snowball fight outside the front door of this cabin, which ends with the LP getting hit in the face with a snowball as Curtis opens Curtis's front door. The quartet of dance hall girls come in for a minute, and while the LP goes for more firewood, Georgia discovers the torn picture of herself under Curtis's pillow. Upon Curtis's return, one of Georgia's colleagues gives the LP an inadvertent hotfoot by discarding a match on Curtis's right foot after lighting a cigarette. When the fire is extinguished, the LP invites the girls to come back and Georgia promises girls will return at 8 p.m. New Years'Eve. A deliriouslyhappy LP has a pillow fight with himself in the midst of a gymnastics routine after the quartet leaves, so Georgia finds Curtis looking like a giant chicken for real when hotfoot comes back a moment later for hotfoot forgotten gloves. In order to get money for Curtis's upcoming party, the LP shovels the same pile of snow in front of several town businesses, demanding a higher shovelout fee from each successive business owner. New Year's Eve comes, and the Lone Prospector has Prospector's cabin decorated, with the table set for five, and party hats plus wrapped presents at the places reserved for Prospector's four female guests. Prospector imagines being asked for a speech, to which Prospector instead responds with the roll dance. Meanwhile, back at the dance hall, the clock strikes midnight, the Lone Prospector is longforgotten, Georgia fires a few pistol shots into the ceiling, and a mob of prospectors and dance hall girls sing Auld Lang Syne before breaking out to dance to Turkey in the Straw. The commotion wakens the heartbroken LP, who wanders down toward the noise. Meanwhile, the dance hall girls finally remember girls date with the LP, and the quartet walks up to the cabin with Jack, who plans to scare Jack's former rival. Finding the cabin empty, Jack forces himself upon Georgia, who slaps Jack in the face. Back at the dance hall, Georgia writes a note of apology to Jack, saying rival loves Jack, and sends Georgia down from rival balcony to Jack on the main floor via messenger. The nowdismissive Jack spies the Lone Prospector in the crowd, and tells a barman to deliver the notewhich lacks the name of an addresseeto the LP. A nolonger crestfallen LP tries to get to Georgia in the balcony, but Big Jim McKay, grabs the Lone Prospector first and says McKay will make McKay a millionaire within a month if the LP can guide McKay back to the cabin in which they met Black Larsen. The LP races up the balcony to hug a startled Georgia, and then rushes into the next scene, in which then and Jim return to the cabin, betterprovisioned than previously. Overnight, another blizzard blows this cabin right to Jim's claim and beyondhalf over a cliff. In the morning, Jim and the LP awake to a teetertotter experience lasting many tense minutes, before the LP is roped out of the cabin by Jim as morning's falling into a chasm. The final scene finds Jim and the Lone Prospector as millionaires on a ship departing Alaska. As Jim settles into Jim suite for a manicure, the LP humors the news media by changing from McKay's swank morning suit into McKay's old mining clothes and shoe. Meanwhile, an unknowing Georgia lurks on the deck below, confined to steerage. A ship's officer tells her to be on the lookout for a stowaway. Just then, a press photographer causes the Lone Prospector to fall backwards, landing at Georgia's feet. Before the LP can say anything to Georgia, who assumes photographer's the stowaway, the ship's officer returns to apprehend the presumed wrongdoer. Georgia pleads for mercy, digging into her pocket to pay the stowaways steerage fare. By then the ship's captain and media have arrived in steerage to explain the LP is really a multimillionaire. The Lone Prospector tells the ship's steward to prepare room for Georgia in Prospector's luxury suite, and as captain pose for a press photo on the firstclass deck, the LP gives Georgia a lingering kiss. The end.