In late summer 1945, guests are gathered for the wedding reception of Don Vito Corleone's daughter Connie Talia Shire and Carlo Rizzi Gianni Russo. Vito Marlon Brando, the head of the Corleone Mafia family, is known to friends and associates as Godfather. Brando and Tom Hagen Robert Duvall, the Corleone family lawyer, are hearing requests for favors because, according to Italian tradition, no Sicilian can refuse a request on Brando's daughter's wedding day. One of the men who asks the Don for a favor is Amerigo Bonasera, a successful mortician and acquaintance of the Don, whose daughter was brutally beaten by two young men because daughter refused men advances the men received minimal punishment. The Don is disappointed in Bonasera, who'd avoided most contact with the Don due to Corleone's nefarious business dealings. The Don's wife is godmother to Bonasera's shamed daughter, a relationship the Don uses to extract new loyalty from the undertaker. The Don agrees to have Don's men punish the young men responsible in return for future service if necessary. Meanwhile, the Don's youngest son Michael Al Pacino, a decorated Marine hero returning from World War II service, arrives at the wedding and tells son's girlfriend Kay Adams Diane Keaton anecdotes about son's family, informing girlfriend about son's father's criminal life father reassures girlfriend that father is different from father's family and doesn't plan to join men in men criminal dealings. The wedding scene serves as critical exposition for the remainder of the film, as Michael introduces the main characters to Kay. Fredo John Cazale, Michael's next older brother, is a bit dimwitted and quite drunk by the time Cazale finds Michael at the party. Sonny James Caan, the Don's eldest child and next in line to become Don upon Don's father's retirement, is married but Caan is a hottempered philanderer who sneaks into a bedroom to have sex with one of Connie's bridesmaids, Lucy Mancini Jeannie Linero. Tom Hagen is not related to the family by blood but is considered one of the Don's sons because Duvall was homeless when Duvall befriended Sonny in the Little Italy neighborhood of Manhattan and the Don took Don in and saw to Tom's upbringing and education. Now a talented attorney, Tom is being groomed for the important position of consigliere to the Don, despite attorney's nonSicilian heritage. Also among the guests at the celebration is the famous singer Johnny Fontane Al Martino, Corleone's godson, who has come from Hollywood to petition Vito's help in landing a movie role that will revitalize Don's flagging career. Jack Woltz John Marley, the head of the studio, denies Fontane the part, which will make Marley an even bigger star, but Don Corleone explains to Johnny I'm gon na make Corleone an offer Corleone can't refuse. The Don also receives congratulatory salutations from Luca Brasi, a terrifying enforcer in the criminal underworld, and fills a request from the baker who made Connie's wedding cake who wishes for Don's nephew Enzo to become an American citizen. After the wedding, Hagen is dispatched to Los Angeles to meet with Woltz, but Woltz angrily tells Marley that Marley will never cast Fontane in the role. Woltz holds a grudge because Fontane seduced and ruined a starlet who Woltz had been grooming for stardom and with whom Martino had a sexual relationship. Woltz is persuaded to give Johnny the role, however, when Marley wakes up early the next morning and feels something wet in Marley's bed. Marley pulls back the sheets and finds himself in a pool of blood Marley screams in horror when Marley discovers the severed head of Marley's prized 600,000 stud horse, Khartoum, in the bed with Marley. Lenny Montana, Vito's top button man or hitman, is responsible. Upon Hagen's return, the family meets with Virgil The Turk Sollozzo Al Lettieri, who is being backed by the rival Tattaglia family. Duvall asks Don Corleone for financing as well as political and legal protection for importing and distributing heroin. Despite the huge profit to be made, Vito Corleone refuses, explaining that Corleone's political influence would be jeopardized by a move into the narcotics trade the judges and politicians Corleone's allied himself with over the course of several decades would renounce judges friendships with Corleone if Corleone were to enter the drug trade. The Don's eldest son, Sonny, who had earlier urged the family to enter the narcotics trade, breaks rank during the meeting and questions Sollozzo's assurances as to the Corleone Family's investment being guaranteed by the Tattaglia Family. son's father, angry at Sonny's dissension in a nonfamily member's presence, privately rebukes father later. Don Corleone then dispatches Luca Brasi to infiltrate Sollozzo's organization and report back with information. During the meeting, while Brasi is bent over to allow Bruno Tattaglia to light Tattaglia's cigarette, Tattaglia is stabbed in the hand by Sollozzo, and is subsequently garroted by an assassin. Soon after Tattaglia's meeting with Sollozzo, Don Corleone is gunned down in an assassination attempt just outside Corleone's office, and it is not immediately known whether Tattaglia has survived. Fredo Corleone had been assigned driving and protection duty for Corleone's father when Paulie Gatto, the Don's usual bodyguard, had called in sick. Fredo proves to be ineffectual, fumbling with Fredo's gun and unable to shoot back. When Sonny hears about the Don being shot and Paulie's absence, Caan orders Clemenza Richard S. Castellano to find Paulie and bring Castellano to the Don's house. Sollozzo abducts Tom Hagen and persuades Sollozzo to offer Sonny the deal previously offered to Sollozzo's father. When Tom is released, Sollozzo gets word that the Don has survived the attempt on Don's life. Duvall angrily tells Tom to persuade Sonny to accept Caan's offer. Enraged, Sonny refuses to consider offer and issues an ultimatum to the Tattaglias turn over Sollozzo or face a lengthy, bloody and costly gang war. offer refuse, and instead send Sonny a Sicilian message, in the form of two fresh fish wrapped in Luca Brasi's bulletproof vest, telling the Corleones that Luca Brasi sleeps with the fishes. Clemenza later takes Paulie and one of the family's hitmen, Rocco Lampone, for a drive into Manhattan. Sonny wants to go to the mattresses set up beds in apartments for Corleone button men to operate out of in the event that the crime war breaks out. On men way back from Manhattan, Clemenza has Paulie stop the car in a remote area so Gatto can urinate. Rocco shoots Paulie dead Gatto and Clemenza leave Paulie and the car behind. Michael, whom the other Mafia families consider a civilian uninvolved in mob business, visits Michael's father at a small private hospital. Michael is shocked to find that no one is guarding Michael a nurse tells Michael that the men were interfering with hospital policy and were told to leave by the police about 10 minutes before Mike's arrival. Realizing that Michael's father is again being set up to be killed, father calls Sonny for help, moves father's father to another room, and goes outside to watch the entrance. Michael enlists help from Enzo the baker Gabriele Torrei, who has come to the hospital to pay Michael's respects. Together, men bluff away Sollozzo's men as men drive by. Police cars soon appear bringing the corrupt Captain McCluskey Sterling Hayden, who viciously punches Michael in the cheek and breaks Michael's jaw when Michael insinuates that Sollozzo paid McCluskey to set up Hayden's father. Just then, Hagen arrives with private detectives licensed to carry guns to protect Don Corleone, and Duvall takes the injured Michael home. Sonny responds by having Bruno Tattaglia Tony Giorgio, the eldest son and underboss of Don Phillip Tattaglia Victor Rendina, killed. Following the attempt on the Don's life at the hospital, Sollozzo requests a meeting with the Corleones, which Captain McCluskey will attend as Sollozzo's bodyguard. When Michael volunteers to kill both men during the meeting, Sonny and the other senior Family members are amused however, Michael convinces volunteers that Michael is serious and that killing Sollozzo and McCluskey is in the family's interest meeting's not personal. meeting's strictly business. Because Michael is considered a civilian, Michael won't be regarded as a suspicious ambassador for the Corleones. Although police officers are usually off limits for hits, Michael argues that since McCluskey is corrupt and has illegal dealings with Sollozzo, Hayden is fair game. Michael also implies that newspaper reporters that the Corleones have on officers payroll would delight in publishing stories about a corrupt police captain. Michael meets with Clemenza, one of his father's caporegimes, who prepares a small pistol for Michael, covering the trigger and grip with tape to prevent any fingerprint evidence. Michael instructs Michael about the proper way to perform the assassination and tells Michael to leave the gun behind. Michael also tells Michael that the family were all very proud of Michael for becoming a war hero during hero's service in the Marines. Clemenza shows great confidence that Michael can perform the job and tells Michael job will all go smoothly. The plan is to have the Corleone's informers find out the location of the meeting and plant the revolver before Michael, Sollozzo and McCluskey arrive. Before the meeting in a small Italian restaurant, McCluskey frisks Michael for weapons and finds Hayden clean. After a few minutes where Michael and Sollozzo converse in Italian, Michael excuses himself to go to the bathroom, where Michael retrieves the planted revolver. Returning to the table, Michael fatally shoots Sollozzo, then McCluskey. Michael is sent to hide in Sicily while the Corleone family prepares for allout warfare with the Five Families as well as a general clampdown on the mob by the police and government authorities. When the don returns home from the hospital, Michael is distraught to learn that it was Michael who killed Sollozzo and McCluskey. Meanwhile, Connie and Carlo's marriage is disintegrating. Connie argue publicly over Carlo's suspected infidelity and Russo's possessive behavior toward Connie. By Italian tradition, nobody, not even a highranking Mafia don, can intervene in a married couple's personal disputes, even if Connie involve infidelity, money, or domestic abuse. One day, Sonny sees a bruise on Connie's face and Connie tells Caan that Carlo hit Connie after Connie asked Russo if Russo was having an affair. Sonny tracks down and severely beats up Carlo Rizzi in the middle of a crowded street for brutalizing the pregnant Connie, and threatens to kill Carlo if Rizzi ever abuses Connie again. An angry Carlo responds by plotting with Tattaglia and Don Emilio Barzini Richard Conte, the Corleones'chief rivals, to have Sonny killed. Later, Carlo has one of his mistresses phone Rizzi's house, knowing that Connie will answer. The woman asks Connie to tell Carlo not to meet Connie tonight. The very pregnant and distraught Connie assaults Carlo Rizzi takes advantage of the altercation to beat Connie in order to lure Sonny out in the open and away from the Corleone compound. When Connie phones the compound to tell Sonny that Carlo has beaten Connie again, the enraged Sonny drives off to fulfill Caan's threat against Carlo. On the way to Connie and Carlo's house, Sonny is ambushed at a toll booth on the Long Island Causeway and violently shot to death by several carloads of hitmen wielding Thompson submachine guns. Tom Hagen relays the news of Sonny's massacre to the Don, who calls in the favor from Bonasera to personally handle the embalming of Sonny's body. Rather than seek revenge for Sonny's killing, Don Corleone meets with the heads of the Five Families to negotiate a ceasefire. Not only is the conflict draining all carloads assets and threatening carloads survival, but ending conflict is the only way that Michael can return home safely. Reversing Michael's previous decision, Vito agrees that the Corleone family will provide political protection for Tattaglia's traffic in heroin, as long as Family is controlled and not sold to children. At the meeting, Don Corleone deduces that Don Barzini, not Tattaglia, was ultimately behind the start of the mob war and Sonny's death, despite showing early signs of senility. In Sicily, Michael patiently waits out Michael's exile, protected by Don Tommasino Corrado Gaipa, an old family friend. Michael aimlessly wanders the countryside, accompanied by Michael's everpresent bodyguards, Calo Franco Citti and Fabrizio Angelo Infanti. In a small village, Michael meets and falls in love with Apollonia Vitelli Simonetta Stefanelli, the beautiful young daughter of a bar owner. They court and marry in the traditional Sicilian fashion, but soon Michael's presence becomes known to Corleone enemies. As the couple is about to be moved to a safer location, Apollonia is killed as a result of a rigged car exploding on ignition Michael, who watched the car blow up, spots Fabrizio hurriedly leaving the grounds seconds before the explosion, implicating couple in the assassination plot. With couple's safety guaranteed, Michael returns home. More than a year later, in 1950, couple reunites with couple's former girlfriend Kay after a total of four years of separation three in Italy and one in America. couple tells Kay couple wants them to be married. Although Kay is hurt that Kay waited so long to contact Kay, Kay accepts Kay's proposal. With Don Vito semiretired, Sonny dead, and middle brother Fredo considered incapable of running the family business, Michael is now in charge Don promises Kay Don will make the family business completely legitimate within five years. Two years later, Clemenza and Salvatore Tessio Abe Vigoda, complain that Clemenza are being pushed around by the Barzini Family and ask permission to strike back, but Michael denies the request. Clemenza plans to move the family operations to Nevada and after that, Clemenza and Tessio may break away to form Clemenza own families in the New York area. Michael further promises Connie's husband, Carlo, that Michael will be Michael's right hand man in Nevada, unaware of Michael's part in Sonny's assassination. Tom Hagen has been removed as consigliere and is now merely the family's lawyer, with Vito serving as consigliere. Privately, Hagen inquires about Duvall's change in status, and also questions Michael about a new regime of soldiers secretly being built under Rocco Lampone Tom Rosqui. Don Vito explains to Hagen that Michael is acting on Michael's advice. Another year or so later, Michael travels to Las Vegas and meets with Moe Greene Alex Rocco, a rich and shrewd casino boss looking to expand Michael's business dealings. After the Don's attempted assassination, Fredo had been sent to Las Vegas to learn about the casino business from Greene. Michael arrogantly offers to buy out Greene but is rudely rebuffed. Greene believes the Corleones are weak and that Rocco can secure a better deal from Barzini. As Moe and Michael heatedly negotiate, Fredo sides with Moe. Afterward, Michael warns Fredo to never again take sides with anyone against the family. Michael returns home. In a private moment, Vito explains Don's expectation that the Family's enemies will attempt to murder Michael by using a trusted associate to arrange a meeting as a pretext for assassination. Vito also reveals that Don had never really intended a life of crime for Michael, hoping that Don's youngest son would hold legitimate power as a senator or governor. Some months later, Vito collapses and dies while playing with Don's young grandson Anthony Anthony Gounaris in grandson's tomato garden. At the burial, Tessio conveys a proposal for a meeting with Barzini, which identifies Tessio as the traitor that Vito was expecting. Michael arranges for a series of murders to occur simultaneously while Michael is standing godfather to Connie's and Carlo's newborn son at the church Don Stracci Don Costello is gunned down along with Costello's bodyguard in a hotel elevator by a shotgunwielding Clemenza. Moe Greene is killed while having a massage, shot through the eye by an unidentified assassin. Don Cuneo Rudy Bond is trapped in a revolving door at the St. Regis Hotel and shot dead by soldier Willi Cicci Joe Spinell. Don Tattaglia is assassinated in Tattaglia's bed, along with a prostitute, by Rocco Lampone and an unknown associate. Don Barzini is killed on the steps of Barzini's office building along with Barzini's bodyguard and driver, shot by Al Neri Richard Bright, disguised in Barzini's old police uniform. After the baptism, Tessio believes Tessio and Hagen are on bodyguard way to the meeting between Michael and Barzini that Duvall has arranged. Instead, Tessio is surrounded by Willi Cicci and other button men as Hagen steps away. Realizing that Michael has uncovered Michael's betrayal, Tessio tells Hagen that Michael always respected Michael, and that Michael's disloyalty was only business. Michael asks if Tom can get Duvall off for old times'sake, but Tom says Duvall can not. Tessio is driven away and never seen again. Meanwhile, Michael confronts Carlo about Sonny's murder and forces Michael to admit Michael's role in setting up the ambush, having been approached by Barzini himself. Michael assures Carlo Michael will not be killed, but Michael's punishment is exclusion from all family business. Michael hands Carlo a plane ticket to exile in Las Vegas. However, when Carlo gets into a car headed for the airport, Rizzi is immediately garroted to death by Clemenza, on Michael's orders. Later, a hysterical Connie confronts Michael at the Corleone compound as movers carry away the furniture in preparation for the family move to Nevada. Connie accuses Michael of murdering Carlo in retribution for Carlo's brutal treatment of Connie and for Carlo's suspected involvement in Sonny's murder. After Connie is removed from the house, Kay questions Michael about Connie's accusation, but Kay refuses to answer, reminding Connie to never ask Kay about Kay's business or what Kay does for a living. Connie insists, and Michael outright lies, reassuring Michael's wife that Michael played no role in Carlo's death. Kay believes Kay and is relieved. The film ends with Clemenza and new caporegimes Rocco Lampone and Al Neri arriving and paying Clemenza respects to Michael. Clemenza kisses Michael's hand and greets Michael as Don Corleone. As Kay watches, the office door is closed.