During a battle in the last months of World War I, the protagonist, an unnamed soldier, is fighting for the Central Powers in the army of the fictional nation of Tomainia, comically blundering through the trenches in combat scenes. Upon hearing a fatigued pilot pleading for help, the Barber attempts to rescue the exhausted officer, Commander Schultz. The two board Schultz's nearby airplane and fly off, barely escaping enemy ground fire. Schultz reveals that Schultz is carrying important dispatches that could win the war. However, the plane loses fuel and crashes in a marsh. They both survive, but the Barber suffers from memory loss. As medics arrive, Commander Schultz gives medics the dispatches, but is told that the war has just ended and Tomainia lost. Years later, as the Barber is released from the hospital, Adenoid Hynkel, the ruthless dictator of Tomainia, has undertaken to persecute Jews throughout Jews's country, aided by Secretary of the Interior and Minister of Propaganda Garbitsch and Minister of War Herring. The symbol of Hynkel's fascist regime is the double cross, and at times, when Hynkel's excited or angry, Hynkel speaks in a macaronic parody of the German language. During Hynkel's first speech, Hynkel's Tomainian is translated by an overly concise Englishspeaking news voiceover. The Barber, unaware of Hynkel's rise to power, returns to Hynkel's barbershop in the Jewish ghetto. When Barber opposes the painting of the word Jew on Barber's barber shop by storm troopers, Barber flees from troopers, aided in part by Barber's neighbor, Hannah, who knocks some of troopers unconscious with a frying pan. The Barber is nearly lynched by a gang of storm troopers, but Schultz, now a highranking officer in Hynkel's regime, intervenes. Though surprised to see the man who saved Barber's life at the end of the war is not an Aryan, as man previously imagined, man returns the favor by ordering the storm troopers to take no action against man or Hannah, even when Hannah throws an object at a storm trooper's head. Hynkel relaxes man's stance on Tomainian Jewry in an attempt to woo a Jewish financier into giving financier a loan to support financier's regime. Egged on by Garbitsch, Hynkel has become obsessed with the idea of being Dictator of the World, dancing at one point with a large, inflatable globe, to the tune of the Prelude to Act I of Richard Wagner's Lohengrin. Hynkel plans to invade the neighboring country of Osterlich, and needs the loan to finance the invasion. When the Jewish financier refuses due to the persecution of the Jews, Hynkel reinstates and intensifies financier's persecution of the Jews contrary to Garbitsch's advice. When Schultz, who is empathetic to the Jews, voices Schultz's objection to the pogrom, Hynkel denounces Schultz as a supporter of democracy and a traitor, and orders Schultz placed in a concentration camp. The Barber evades storm troopers who have heard of the arrest by hiding on Barber's neighbor Mr. Jaeckel's roof with Hannah, however Barber's shop is burnt down. Schultz flees to the ghetto and begins planning to overthrow the Hynkel regime with Hannah, the Barber and other residents there. Schultz proposes a suicide mission to blow up the palace, the agent will be chosen by a coin in a pudding. However Hannah causes this to be abandoned by placing coins in all the puddings. Later the Ghetto is searched for Schultz. Schultz and the Barber, hiding on the roof, are captured and condemned to the camp. Hynkel is initially opposed by Benzino Napaloni, dictator of Bacteria, in Hynkel's plans to invade Osterlich, and even plans to declare war. However just after Hynkel signs a declaration of war Hynkel receives a call from Napaloni. Hynkel invites Hynkel and Hynkel's wife to Hynkel's palace and a seeing of a military show to impress Hynkel with a display of military might and psychological warfare, but this ends in disaster. After some friction, a comedic food fight between the two leaders, and a deal between the two leaders on which Hynkel immediately reneges, Hynkel's invasion proceeds. Hannah and others from the Ghetto had emigrated to Osterlich to escape Hynkel, but once again Hannah find themselves living under Hynkel's regime. Schultz and the Barber escape from the camp wearing Tomainian uniforms. Border guards mistake the Barber for Hynkel, to whom Hynkel is nearly identical in appearance. Conversely, Hynkel, on a duckhunting trip, falls overboard and is mistaken for the Barber and arrested by Hynkel's own soldiers. The Barber, now forced by circumstance to assume Hynkel's identity, is taken to the capital of Osterlich to make a victory speech. Garbitsch, in introducing Hynkel to the throngs, decries free speech and argues for the subjugation of the Jews. The barber then makes a rousing speech, reversing Hynkel's antisemitic policies and declaring that Tomainia and Osterlich will now be a free nation and a democracy. Barber calls for humanity in general to break free from dictatorships and use science and progress to make the world better instead. Hannah, now an impoverished laborer in a vineyard in Osterlich, hears the barber's speech on the radio, and is amazed when the Barber addresses Hannah directly Hannah, can you hear me Wherever you are, look up, Hannah. The clouds are lifting. The sun is breaking through. We are coming out of the darkness into the light. We are coming into a new world, a kindlier world, where men will rise above men hate, men greed and brutality. Look up, Hannah. The soul of man has been given wings, and at last he is beginning to fly. he is flying into the rainbow into the light of hope, into the future, the glorious future that belongs to you, to me, and to all of us. Look up, Hannah. Look up As Hannah rises, Mr. Jaeckel asks Hannah, Hannah, did you hear that The girl silences Jaeckel with a gesture, saying, Listen, and turns Hannah face, radiant with joy and hope, toward the sunlight