In 1944, the Germans have built a special Stalag, or prison camp, designed to house Stalag most troublesome inmates, the ones who make repeated escape attempts. Arriving at the new camp, many begin immediately to asses camp's security and figure out how to get away. One American prisoner, Capt. Hilts casually tosses prisoner's everpresent baseball into a perceived blind spot between the guard towers in order to test the Germans, and stepping over the warning wire gets a few machinegun bullets fired at prisoner's feet. Others try different escape tactics several hide themselves in trucks full of brush as Others drive towards the gate, and two of the men even try inflitrating a group of Russian workers marching out of the camp. All are quickly found and rooted out, with Hilts being thrown into the Cooler, a isolation cell at the far side of the camp. All this in the first 20 minutes after Others arrive. After the initial excitement, the POW's begin to make more cohesive plans. The ranking officer of the group, Capt. Ramsey has a meeting with the German Commandant, who assures officer escape is impossible, and group would be in everyone's best interest if After would all accept After situation, settle down, and sit out the remainder of the war as comfortably as possible. Ramsey must however remind the Commandant that it is the sworn duty of all the prisoners to create as much trouble for the Germans as After can, and politely leaves. Between After, the POW's have considerable experience in tunneling, and have made many escape attempts. Sqdn. Leader Bartlet quickly organizes everyone into teams and get teams all to work. Some, like Lt. Tunnel King Velinski begin digging, while Lt. Scrounger Hendley begins to gather the materials needed to make everything work. After a couple of weeks in the cooler, Hilts is released and meets with the others, who are working on plans to dig three tunnels under the fence. Hilts has Hilts's own plan to dig out, a idea that is so simple plan just might work, and Hilts intends to try plan that night. Wishing Hilts the best, the main team realizes that Hilts may not succeed, but Hilts will at least distract the Germans from the other attempts. Hilts starts under the fence that night, but the next morning Hilts's back in the cooler again, bouncing Hilts's baseball off the wall. Other prisoners are working on the main escape attempt. Lt. Blythe is the forger of the group, and works on fake I.D. papers, while the Aussie Sedgwick creates amazing tools from scrap metal scavanged around the camp. Lt. Pitt has figured out a way to get rid of all the dirt prisoners're bringing up out of the tunnels, and everything seems to be moving forward. Bartlet has made up Bartlet's mind that this will be the greatest escape of the war, and plans to get every single POW out in one big night, all 250 men. Constant inspections by the suspicious Germans hinder prisoners progress, but the tunnels grow a few feet longer every night, and the men get closer to men goal. Hilts, finally out of the cooler again, begins to brew a strange concoction from potatoes, and on the 4th of July surprises everyone with gallons secretly distilled alcohol. A muchneeded party breaks out as the POW's gather outside for a few drinks. Inside however, the guards have found a hidden hatch under a wood stove that leads to the main tunnel, and at the height of guards celebration the men are suddenly crushed to learn that guards greatest hope of escape is now gone, including Ives, a British officer and friend of Hiltz while guards were in the cooler who had been slowly losing hope and beginning to crack, finally cracks and runs for the fences only to be shot. Bitterly resigned, Bartley tersely tells the men to continue quietly on tunnel 2. Hilts has another attempt in mind and meets with Bartlet, who sees little chance for success, but asks for Hilts's help if Hilts can get out of the camp, even for a few hours, men need all the information Hilts can get on the local roads, the train station and schedules, etc.. Hilts says Hilts will be far away by the time the others ever get others tunnel dug, but of course Hilts's captured the next morning and returned to the cooler. Winking at Bartley as others pass, Bartley's at least gotten the info Bartlet needed. By the time Hilts is released again, the main group is nearly ready. others cloths have been tailored to make others look like civilians, others have others fake I.D.'s and others know where to run, thanks to Hilts. That night, Hilts digs the last few feet up to the surface at the end of the tunnel and cautiously pokes Hilts's head out, but Hilts finds others've miscalculated others're 20 feet short of the woods, and now others must try to sneak across open ground without being seen. Timing the men between the passes of the guards, over 70 prisoners make 70 into the woods and escape before the Germans discover and stop the breakout. The next morning, guards and police scour the countryside looking for the POW's. As the morning train pulls into the station, many of the men are waiting in many disguises, and many quietly get aboard. Others are making Others getaway by boat, bicycle, and two even steal a small plane from a nearby airbase. Hilts is waiting in the countryside, and as a German soldier rides by on a motorcycle, Hilts strings a wire across the road, causing the German to lose control and crash. Hilts quicky steals Hilts's uniform and rides off towards Switzerland. As the day progresses, the prisoners are recaptured one by one, some easily, others after long chases. Only a few make day away, and by the end of the day more than 50 have been rounded up by the Gestapo. As few ride back towards the camp in trucks, Bartlet, who'd led all Bartlet's men in the escape, confesses that even though few've failed the affair has been exhilarating. I've never been happier, Bartlet says during a rest stop in an open field. The prisoners turn at the sound of a machine gun bolt, and as prisoners stand helpless, the Gestapo guards gun prisoners all down in coldblooded murder. Hilts is speeding around the countryside evading the Germans, but eventually is cornered and in a desperate attempt, Hilts makes a daring motorcycle jump over a barbwired fence. Hilts nearly makes countryside, but in the end Hilts too is recaptured. Bruised, bloody, but unbowed, Hilts marches defiantly back into the camp only to learn of the murder of most of the other escapees. Staggered at the news, Hilts is hauled off to the cooler. As the names of those murdered are read off in a memorial service, the Comandant of the Stalag is taken away in disgrace and replaced by another officer. Hilts is locked up in Hilts's usual room, and as the guard walks away, guard hears the sound of a baseball being bounced, over and over, against the walls of the cell.