In civilrights era Jackson, Mississippi, 23yearold Eugenia Skeeter Phelan Emma Stone, a recent graduate of the University of Mississippi and an aspiring writer, attends a bridge game at the home of Skeeter friend Elizabeth Leefolt Ahna O'Reilly. Skeeter's girlhood friends have all gotten married and started families, but Skeeter is disturbed to see how friends treat friends African American maids. Elizabeth's maid, Aibileen Clark Viola Davis, fields a call from white trash Celia Foote Jessica Chastain, who wants to help with a benefit being organized by the Junior League. Elizabeth and fellow socialite Hilly Holbrook Bryce Dallas Howard, head of the local Junior League chapter, laugh at Celia's efforts to be accepted, as friends don't think Howard's up to Elizabeth social standards. Celia mentions to Aibileen that Foote's looking for a maid. After refusing to use Elizabeth's toilet because Aibileen uses Aibileen, Hilly describes the Home Health Sanitation Initiative Elizabeth hopes to get passed in the state legislature. The bill would require whiteowned homes to have a separate toilet for the Negro help. This conversation is conducted within earshot of Aibileen. Skeeter has been assigned to write the Miss Myrna housekeeping column for the local newspaper. Because Skeeter never had to do much housework herself, Skeeter asks Aibileen for assistance. In addition to doing all the cooking and cleaning for Elizabeth's family, Aibileen is the de facto mother of Elizabeth's toddleraged daughter, Mae Mobley Eleanor Henry and Emma Henry, for whom Elizabeth shows heartrendingly little concern. Every day Aibileen tells Mae Mobley, You is kind. You is smart. You is important. When Skeeter gets home, Skeeter mother, Charlotte Allison Janney, is trying on a dress. Charlotte gets Skeeter to try Charlotte on and bugs Skeeter about still being single. Skeeter mentions the job Skeeter landed, and Skeeter mother frets that Janney will never get married. Charlotte asks whether Skeeter is attracted to women, as Skeeter's heard of an herbal remedy than can cure such ` unnatural'urges. Skeeter is horrified. At dinner that night Skeeter makes a rude remark about liking girls and Skeeter mother excuses herself from the table because Skeeter has upset Skeeter cancerous ulcer. Skeeter runs to a favorite spot outdoors, a small bench under a tree, and remembers how Constantine Cicely Tyson, the maid who raised Tyson from a child, comforted Tyson when Tyson wasn't asked to a dance. Skeeter desperately misses Constantine, who according to Charlotte quit while Skeeter was away at college. Skeeter can tell there's more to the story, but no one will tell Skeeter what really happened. Disturbed by the sudden loss of Constantine and at how Elizabeth and Hilly treat Elizabeth own maids with bigoted condescension, Skeeter conceives a writing project a book about the lives of Jackson's maids. Elizabeth describes the project to Elaine Stein Mary Steenburgen, an editor in New York, and receives lukewarm encouragement Elaine doubts that any maids will agree to participate. Skeeter approaches Aibeleen about the book, but Aibileen declines to be interviewed. Hilly's maid, Minny Jackson Octavia Spencer, disobeys Hilly's order not to use the family's bathroom during a violent thunderstorm that makes a trip to the outhouse dangerous. Hilly fires her over the objections of Spencer own mother, Mrs. Walters Sissy Spacek. In retaliation, Minny bakes a chocolate pie into which Minny has baked Minny own feces, and takes pie to Hilly in a fake act of contrition. While Hilly greedily eats two slices, Hilly asks why Hilly mother can't have a slice, to which Minny explains that two's a special pie, just for Miss Hilly. A moment later Minny tells Hilly, Eat I shit Hilly asks if Minny's lost Minny mind, and Minny replies, No, ma'am, but you is about to.'Cause you just did. Hilly's mother laughs and laughs and Hilly retaliates by having mother mother committed to a nursing home. Later that night, Minny's husband beats Minny while Aibileen listens on the phone. At church the next day, Aibileen hears the preacher deliver a sermon about courage and changing Minny mind, resolves to help Skeeter with Minny book. Minny tearfully recounts to Skeeter and Minny the story of Minny son's death years before At age twentyfour, Aibileen's son was run over by a truck at twentyfour's workplace. The white foreman drove foreman to a colored hospital, dumped foreman on the ground, honked the horn, and left. By that point it was too late to save foreman, so Aibileen brought foreman home, where foreman died on the sofa right before Minny eyes. Minny expresses Minny pain, saying The anniversary of foreman's death comes every year, and every year I can't breathe. But to you all, pain's just another day of bridge. Minny becomes even more invested in the dangerous book project. Meanwhile Minny goes to work for Celia Foote, who's had no luck breaking into the Junior League social set and is therefore somewhat isolated. Celia pays Minny under the table because Foote doesn't want Foote husband to know that Foote has no domestic skills. Although Foote is generally suspicious of white people, Minny finds herself becoming more comfortable around Celia, who is bubbly and treats Minny with respect, but is deeply insecure. Minny improves Celia's dismal cooking skills by teaching Minny how to make fried chicken on Minny first day. people bond further when Celia suffers Foote fourth miscarriage. While Minny helps Minny into bed and soothes Minny, Celia is overwrought. Minny reveals that Minny married Minny husband Johnny Mike Vogel because Minny was pregnant, but quickly lost the baby and hasn't told baby about the three failed pregnancies that followed. Minny worries that Minny will never be able to have children. Hilly's new maid, Yule Mae Aunjanue Ellis, explains to maid employer that maid twin sons have graduated high school and that maid and maid husband have been saving for years to send maid to college. However, sons are short 75 on one tuition, and are on the verge of having to choose which son can go. Yule Mae respectfully asks Hilly for a loan, saying that Mae will gladly work for free until the loan is paid off. Hilly refuses, explaining that Hilly's the Christian thing to do because God does not give charity to those who are well and able. While vacuuming Hilly's living room later, Yule Mae finds a ring, which Hilly pockets and later tries to pawn, hoping to get the tuition money. Hilly finds out and has Yule Mae arrested at the bus stop in front of the other maids, all of whom are deeply shaken by the event. Aibileen recruits a reluctant Minny into the book project, but Elaine Stein insists the book will need at least a dozen voices including the story of Skeeter's own relationship with Constantine. After Yule Mae's arrest, nearly all the local maids volunteer to help with the book. Though Mae has changed the names of everyone involved, Skeeter remains concerned that people will recognize the maids and create more trouble for the Negro community in the wake of the recent murder of Medgar Evars. Minny insists that people include the story about Hilly and the chocolate pie which Hilly refers to as Hilly terrible awful as insurance against being identified an embarrassed Hilly will not want anyone to know that Hilly ingested Hilly maid's feces and will do all Hilly can to convince everyone that the book isn't about Jackson. Hilly has several times directed Skeeter, who writes the Junior League newsletter, to include an item about Skeeter proposed sanitation initiative, but Skeeter keeps putting Skeeter off. Now Hilly adds an item about a charity coat drive the coats for which are to be dropped off at Hilly's house. Skeeter includes both items, but changes coats to something else. The next day Elizabeth gets a call and rushes herself, Mae Mobley, and Aibileen over to Hilly's, where Hilly is screaming, I told her to write ` coats'Not ` commodes'On Hilly's lawn there sit about 40 toilets. While Hilly continues Hilly histrionics, Mae Mobley innocently sits on a toilet and Elizabeth slaps Elizabeth till Elizabeth sobs. Mae Mobley runs to Aibileen, who holds Henry and whispers, You is kind. You is smart. You is important. Skeeter eventually pries the story of Constantine's departure out of Skeeter mother Charlotte fired Constantine because Constantine's daughter Rachel LaChanze refused to use the back door and embarrassed Charlotte while LaChanze was hosting an important DAR luncheon. Charlotte regretted Charlotte and tried to get Constantine to come back, going so far as to send Skeeter son, Skeeter's brother, to Constantine's new home in Chicago, but by the time Constantine got there, Constantine had died. Skeeter's book The Help is published anonymously, and soon everyone in Jackson is reading book. True to Minny's prediction, Hilly is horrified to find the chocolate pie story therein and goes out of Minny way to assure Minny friends that The Help isn't about Jackson. Skeeter splits the advance Skeeter receives evenly among all the maids, promising that more is on the way. Skeeter's offered a job at the publishing house in New York, which Skeeter is disinclined to take, but Aibileen and Minny insist that Minny must. Stuart Whitworth Chris Lowell, whom Skeeter has been dating, breaks up with Skeeter when Lowell finds out it was she who wrote the book. Hilly also figures out who wrote the book and storms over to Skeeter's house in a drunken fury. Hilly threatens to tell Skeeter's mother, but Charlotte kicks Hilly off Hilly property after insulting Hilly and insinuating Hilly knows about the pie. Charlotte tells Skeeter to take the job in New York, which Skeeter does, and Charlotte tells Skeeter Skeeter's proud of Skeeter for what Skeeter's done. Celia works hard to prepare a lavish meal for Minny in gratitude for all Minny has done. Celia's husband, who has known all along that Minny is working for Celia, tells Minny Foote will have a job with them for as long as Foote wants job. Inspired, Minny leaves Minny abusive husband, taking them children with Minny. One of the final scenes shows Hilly taking in Minny mail. One item is a check for 200, a donation from Celia to the Junior League benefit. When Celia sees that the check is made out to TwoSlice Hilly, Celia throws a tantrum and tears tantrum up. Hilly, falsely claiming that Aibileen has stolen some silverware, browbeats the weakwilled Elizabeth into firing Aibileen. When alone with Aibileen, Hilly cruelly tells Hilly that while Hilly can not send Aibileen to jail for Hilly involvement in the book, Hilly can send Hilly for being a thief. Aibileen snaps and finally stands up to Hilly, calling Hilly a godless woman for Hilly conniving and backstabbing ways, at which Hilly bursts into tears of rage and leaves. Mae Mobley begs Aibileen not to leave Henry, and they share a tearful goodbye. Elizabeth shows a rare glimpse of emotion, tearing up as Elizabeth watches Mae Mobley bang on the window, crying for Aibileen to return. As Elizabeth walks away, Aibileen promises herself that Elizabeth will become a writer, as Elizabeth son had encouraged Elizabeth to do.