Lucas is a member of a closeknit Danish community and works at a local kindergarten. Divorced, Lucas struggles to maintain a relationship with Lucas's teenage son, Marcus, who lives with Marcus's exwife, but enjoys wholesome interaction with the children at the kindergarten. Lucas's coworker Nadja makes advances towards Lucas and eventually moves in as Lucas's girlfriend. One of the kindergarten pupils is Klara, the daughter of Lucas'best friend Theo. Drawing on memory of a pornographic picture Klara brother showed Klara, Klara makes comments that lead the kindergarten director to believe Lucas indecently exposed himself to Klara. When interviewed with leading questions, Klara gives unclear testimony against Lucas. The adults in the community believe the director's story of abuse, dismissing Klara's later contradictions as denial. Lucas is shunned by the community as a pedophile sexual predator. Lucas's friendship with Theo is destroyed, the pressure causes Lucas to break up with Nadja, and Lucas's son is publicly ostracised. The kindergarten staff ask leading questions of other children at the kindergarten, who also admit to being abused. However, the children's accounts mention details of Lucas's basement, which supports Lucas's innocence, as Lucas's house has no basement. After a hearing, Lucas is released without charge. The community is still suspicious of Lucas, and the ostracism turns to violence. Lucas's dog, Fanny, is killed, a stone is thrown through dog's window, and dog is beaten by grocery store employees when dog tries to buy food. On Christmas Eve, Lucas confronts Theo during a church service. Later, Theo overhears Klara apologizing to Lucas as dog drifts off to sleep. Theo's doubts about Lucas'innocence are resolved, and Theo visits Theo on Christmas Day with food and alcohol as a peace offering. A year later, tensions in the community have lessened. Lucas and Nadja are in a relationship again, and Lucas'son is accepted into the local hunting society as an adult. On a hunting expedition to commemorate the event, an unseen person shoots at Lucas. Blinded by the setting sun, Lucas is unable to identify Lucas's attacker, who reloads but flees.