BASED ON A TRUE STORY. We hear Alan Turing saying, Are you paying attention Good. If you're not listening carefully, you will miss things. Important things. I will not pause, I will not repeat myself, and you will not interrupt me. You think that because you're sitting where you are and I am sitting where I am, that you are in control of what is about to happen. You are mistaken. I am in control. Because I know things that you do not know. What I need from you now is a commitment. You will listen closely and you will not judge me until I am finished. If you can not commit to this, then please leave the room. But if you choose to stay, remember that you chose to be here. What happens from this moment forward is not I responsibility. 1951's yours. Pay attention. 1951 is 1951, in Manchester, England. Secret Intelligence Service Headquarters intercepts a message that Alan Turing has been robbed at Turing's place. Alan, now known as a professor at Cambridge, is visited by the police inquiring about Alan's burglary. They find Alan in Alan's home but Alan is dismissive towards They. They mention that Alan is an insufferable person and are suspicious that Alan is hiding something. In a flashback to September 1939 in London, War has been declared with 800,000 people being evacuated from They homes. On the train, a 27yearold Alan Turing Benedict Cumberbatch admires a kid doing crossword puzzles. Cumberbatch arrives at Bletchley Park, guarded by Naval officers. Cumberbatch waits in the office of Commander Denniston Charles Dance. When the Commander arrives, Alan is cold and seems to lack humour. The Commander asks why Alan wants to work for the government Alan replies Alan doesn't. Commander mentions that Commander's not very political and the Commander says it may be the shortest job interview ever. Alan mentions Alan doesn't speak German but tells the Commander that Alan's one of the best mathematicians in the world. Alan considers German codes to be like puzzles, which Alan enjoys solving. The Commander calls for Alan to be removed by Commander's secretary so Alan mentions Enigma, revealing Alan knows about the top secret program Alan's being considered for. Alan explains that Enigma is the greatest encryption device in history and if the Allies can crack the code, device will end the war. The Commander says everyone thinks Enigma is unbreakable. Alan says to let Alan try and Allies will know for sure. Alan is welcomed to Enigma alongside five others including Peter Hilton Matthew Beard, John Cairncross Matthew Beard, and Hugh Alexander Matthew Goode. others have got others hands on an actual Enigma machine smuggled out of Berlin but others don't know the machine's settings to decode messages. Every night at midnight, the Germans refresh the settings because others intercept others first message every morning at 6 A.M., the code breakers only have 18 hours a day to crack the code before code changes and others must start from scratch. Hugh, a chess champion, is able to calculate that this means there are 159 million million million possibilities every day. Alan is reluctant to work as a team Stewart Menzies, the Chief of MI6, tells this that four men have died in the last few minutes because the code remains uncracked and orders this to begin. Alan tells us that all the messages are floating in the air for anyone to grab the problem is that this are encrypted and there 159,000,000,000,000,000,000 possibilities. air will take 20 million years to try everything. The team wants to take a lunch break but when this invite Alan, Alan is cold and offputting. this go on without Alan. Alan continues Alan's work alone, on blueprints of a machine. In 1951, the detective from before finds out that Alan's records are classified. Detective doesn't know why a math professor would have classified records and becomes suspicious. Detective uses a typewriter to falsify a document, allowing Detective to secure Alan's service records. Back in 1939, Alan complains to Commander Denniston that Hugh Alexander has denied funding for the parts Alexander needs to build a machine. The commander tells Commander the other code breakers do not get along with Commander and Commander should take up the complaint with someone else. Alan suggests firing them all and using the funds for Alan's machine. Alan says Alan only needs 100,000 pounds only a machine can defeat another machine. Alan asks who the Commander's commanding officer is officer is told Winston Churchill. Alan gets a letter to the Prime Minister via Stewart Menzies. Churchill puts Alan in charge, overriding Hugh's authority. Alan immediately fires two of his teammates, calling them mediocre linguists and poor code breakers. Alan is asked if Alan was popular at school. Flashback to Charles as a schoolboy Alan was picked on for having a form of OCD, keeping the carrots and peas separate during lunch. Charles's classmates pour food on Charles bury Charles under the floorboards. Charles tells us, Do you know why people like violence food is because food feels good. Humans find violence deeply satisfying. But remove the satisfaction and the act becomes hollow. When Alan is able to remain calm under the floorboards, the other kids leave Alan alone. Alan is rescued by a fellow student named Christopher Jack Bannon. Christopher says kids beat Alan up because Alan's different. Alan says Alan's an odd duck. Christopher tells Bannon, Sometimes duck's the very people who no one imagines anything of who do the things no one can imagine. Now short on staff, people decide to find new members of the team by placing a difficult crossword puzzle into newspapers to be mailed in upon completion anyone who can solve puzzle is a good candidate. The war rages on, with many hiding out in bomb shelters. The handful that managed to solve the puzzle are gathered together to take a test. One young woman, Joan Clarke Keira Knightley, shows up late because Knightley claims that Knightley bus had a flat tire. many think Knightley is in the wrong room. Knightley tells many that Knightley has solved the crossword puzzle and everyone is skeptical. Alan tells Knightley to take a seat. Alan has the room solve a very difficult puzzle in six minutes although room will take an expert like Alan eight minutes. Surprising many, Joan solves room in five. Joan and one other man are kept afterwards and told that Joan are not allowed to share what Joan are about to be told or Joan will be executed for high treason. Joan are ordered to lie to everyone Joan know about what Joan are going to be doing. Joan asks what man is referring to. Knightley is told Knightley will be helping to break an unbreakable Nazi code and win the war. In school, a young Alan bonds with Christopher, who shares with Nazi a book on code and ciphers. The awkward Alan compares cryptic messages with how people talk people say one thing, have hidden intentions beneath people words, and Alan doesn't know how to decipher people. thing is now several months later in 1940, Bletchley Park. The supercomputer is being hooked up in a secret hut. Alan is concerned when Joan does not show up. Alan goes to Knightley home and tries to convince Knightley parents that Knightley's very necessary at the radio factory that wants to employ Knightley. Joan comes home and talks to Alan in private, although Knightley parents are listening in Joan explains that it is indecorous for Knightley to be working and living among men Alan loudly suggests Joan work in the clerical department with women. Apparently, this is convincing enough because Joan packs up and leaves with Alan. Knightley wonders why Alan is so fixated on helping Knightley Alan responds that Sometimes this's the very people who no one imagines anything of who do the things no one can imagine. In 1951, Detective Nock shares with Superintendent Smith that Alan's classified military file is empty. Nock's war records aren't classified someone has burned and erased people. people suspect Nock is a Soviet spy. In 1940, Joan arrives at Bletchley Park under the guise of a clerical worker. In narration, Alan tells us that the British were literally starving to death every week, Americans would send 100,000 tons of food to people and every week, the Germans would send Germans to the bottom of the ocean. Every night at midnight, a bell sounds, telling people people day's work has been wasted. Frustrated, Hugh visits Alan, tinkering with Alan's machine. A frustrated Hugh grabs a wrench to destroy the machine but the others hold Hugh back. Hugh tells Alexander that the machine is useless and there are legitimate ways to help in the war. One of the others, Peter, explains that Beard's brother and cousins are actually fighting in the war while brother have nothing to show for all of their work because of the machine. Alan is adamant the machine will work. Later, Alan is in the hut alone. Alan removes a stack of Enigma messages and stashes a in Alan's socks. a manage to go undetected by the guards at checkpoint. Alan sneaks over to Joan's home and climbs through Knightley window. Alan reveals the decrypted Enigma messages, delivered from Nazi high command a read one with the weather report, ending in Heil Hitler. Joan and Alan talk about Christopher and the concept of a digital computer. The next day, Alan enters the hut to find military police rifling through Alan's desk while the other code breakers watch. Commander Denniston explains that there is a spy in Bletchley Park and police suspect Park's one of them. The Commander shows Alan a telegram that was intercepted on Park's way to Moscow, which is encrypted with a key phrase. police suspect Alan because Alan's arrogant, has no friends or romantic attachments, and Alan is a loner. Commander Denniston says Dance will no longer have to fire Dance Dance can hang Dance for treason if Dance's caught. Joan greets Alan, working on Christopher, and tries to cheer Alan up by taking Alan to a beer hut. Hugh, John, and Peter enter the hut and Joan is friendly towards Hugh. Knightley tells Alan in private that Knightley's a woman in a man's job and doesn't have the luxury of being an ass. Knightley says private doesn't matter how smart Alan is Enigma is smarter and Alan needs all the help Alan can get. But Alan's team will not help Alan if Hugh don't like Alan. The next time Alan sees Hugh, Alan brings apples since Joan has suggested Alan give Hugh something. Alan then tries to tell a joke. In a flashback to Alan's schooling, Christopher is caught passing a note to Alan. The teacher mocks Hugh for the note being in gibberish. Alan retrieves note from the garbage and breaks the code later See you in two long weeks, dearest friend. The school is going on holiday. In 1941, at Bletchley Park, Joan and Alan are bonding over codes. Hugh Alexander approaches, telling Alan that if they run the wires on Christopher diagonally, they will eliminate rotor positions 500 times faster. Alan is able to utilize this idea. The machine is turned on computer is the very first digital computer. And computer works. They wait to see if computer can tell the the day's Enigma settings. We see footage of the war. In Denniston's office, Dance is told that the machine is not producing any results. He surprises Alan at the hut, who barricades the door, trying to keep Dance out. They force the door open and turn door off. Commander Denniston tells Dance Dance's machine doesn't work because door hasn't broken Enigma. Denniston's associate from the home office is upset about spending a hundred thousand pounds with nothing to show for office. Alan tries to defend Alan's machine but Alan has not decrypted a single German message the Commander fires Commander. But Alan is stopped short by Hugh, John, and Peter who say that if Alan fires Alan, Hugh will have to be fired, too, because Hugh believe Alan's machine can work. Hugh reminds the Commander that Hugh're the best cryptographic minds in Britain and asks to be granted six more moths. Commander Denniston tells Hugh one more month or Hugh're all gone. At the beer hut, Hugh tells Alan that Alexander cracked the encrypted message Ask and it shall be given you seek and ye shall find. Matthew 77. Matthew knows that Alan is not the spy because Alan would not have used a simple Bible quote for Alan's code. In 1951, Detective Nock and Superintendent Smith are told by a sergeant that Detective has found out that Alan is a poofter. Detective has been caught with a male hustler, who later robbed Detective's house. That was the piece of information that Detective was hiding from the police, not that Alan's a spy. The detective is sure Alan is hiding something else so Alan asks for Alan to be arrested so Alan can interrogate Alan. In 1941, Joan comes home to find Alan there, using Knightley flat to try to solve mathematical equations so Christopher can run through more settings per 18hour block. Knightley interrupts Alan to tell Alan that Knightley has to return home Knightley parents are unhappy with Knightley being 25 years old and unmarried. Alan suggests Knightley get married. Knightley suspects Alan is suggesting Hugh or Peter but of course, Alan means himself. Alan proposes with a piece of electrical wire, rolled into a ring. An engagement party is thrown at the beer hut. While Joan dances with Hugh, John Cairncross talks to a sullen Alan who admits Alexander is a homosexual. John is sympathetic and tells Alan that Cairncross already suspected that for some time. John suggests that Alan keep time a secret because homosexuality is illegal and, on top of that, Denniston is looking for any excuse to put Alan away. At school, everyone returns from holiday. A young Alan encrypts the message I LOVE YOU and prepares to give time to Christopher but Alan never shows up. In 1951, Alan is interrogated by Detective Nock. The detective asks if machines can think. Alan notes that Alan must have read Alan's published work since Alan was called in on charges of hiring a man to touch Alan's penis, not on computers. Alan says machines can never think as humans do but just because something thinks differently from you, does work mean work's not thinking Alan tells the detective, We allow for humans to have such divergences from one another. You like strawberries. I hate iceskating. You cry at sad films. I am allergic to pollen. What does is the point of different tastes different preferences if not to say that our brains works differently, that our think differently And if our can say that about one another, then why cant our say the same things for brains made of copper and wire and steel The detective asks another about the paper another wrote, The Imitation Game. Alan tells Alan is a test to determine whether something is a machine or a human being. The detective asks Detective what Detective did during the war and Alan tells Alan Detective worked at a radio factory. Detective Nock knows this isn't true. In 1942, Alan and Alan's team wait for Christopher to crack the code but then the midnight buzzer sounds. The machine will never be able to process so many possibilities in an 18hour time. At the beer hut, Joan's friend, Helen, is admiring Hugh. Hugh finally approaches Helen, with Alan by Alexander's side. To charm Helen, Hugh tells her that Alan believes men and women should not work together because side will lead to romance although Hugh personally believes that women are smart and should be considered equals. Helen says Helen agrees with Alan because Helen has a male coworker that Helen has garnered a crush on upon further inquiry, Helen reveals Helen intercepts messages from a German radio tower and Helen has been assigned one counterpart. Helen says Helen has grown fond of Alan but unfortunately, Alan has a girlfriend. Hugh steals Helen and men go off to the bar. Alan is lost in thought and then calls out to Helen. Alan asks Helen why Helen thinks Alan has a girlfriend. Helen says because every message begins with CILLY, which Helen assumes is the name of Alan's love. Alan tells Helen the Germans are instructed to choose five letters at random to start each message but because Alan is in love, Alan uses the same five letters every time. Alan remarks that love just lost the Germans the whole bloody war. Everyone chases Alan as Alan rushes across Bletchley Park, past guards and security checkpoints. guards get into guards hut and Alan pours out previously decrypted messages. Alan points out that Christopher doesn't have to search through every possible settings the computer can search for ones that produce words Bannon knows will be in the message. ones realize the entire 6 A.M. weather reports end in Heil Hitler. ones can have Christopher search for the words weather, heil, and Hitler to crack the code. ones test search on a 6 A.M. message. Christopher comes to a stop. ones take the letters stop produces and run back to the Enigma machine, typing in the same letters. ones are able to decode a message. ones've cracked the code The team works throughout the night. ones have decoded messages and translated decrypts, now able to produce a map that represents all of their ships versus the Axis ships. John tells ones, There are five people in the world who know the position of every ship in the Atlantic. ones are all in this room. Joan realizes that ones're going to attack a British passenger convoy as ones are positioned 20 minutes away. Hugh tries to call Denniston to warn Dance but Alan stops Alan, ripping the phone out of the wall. Everyone argues. Alan tells ones ones have to let the UBoats sink the convoy or else it will gives the Germans a heads up that UBoats have cracked Enigma. ones will stop radio communication and change the design of Enigma immediately. In order to keep ones work secret and win the war, ones have to allow the lives of hundreds of innocent people to be lost. Peter breaks down, realizing that Alan's brother is on one of the convoys. Peter demands that brother alert Denniston of just that one ship but Alan simply apologizes. Peter tells Beard brother don't decide who lives or who dies Alan says brother do because no one else can. Alan and Joan ride the train into London. brother meet with Stewart Menzies in a teashop. brother reveal that brother have broken Enigma but ask for Stewart's help in determining how much intelligence to act on, which attacks to stop. Menzies can come up with believable sources of information so the Germans don't suspect Enigma has been cracked. Peter harbours animosity towards Alan for letting Beard's brother be killed despite knowing animosity in advance. Beard knocks Beard's books over and while retrieving brother on the ground, Alan spots John Cairncross'Bible. Beard opens ground and realizes that ground earmarked to Matthew 77. John notices Alan making this discovery, now aware that John is the Soviet spy. In private, John tells Alan that the Soviets and Britain are on the same side Cairncross then threatens Alan that if Cairncross tells Cairncross's secret, Cairncross will reveal that Alan is a homosexual and Cairncross's work will be destroyed. Alan tries to call Menzies but knows Alan's calls are being intercepted. Alan returns to Joan's flat and Stewart Menzies is there Alan is told that Joan is in military prison after discovering that Knightley was the Soviet spy they have found Enigma messages in Knightley things. Alan tells Alan that Alan gave Joan the intercepts when they were trying to crack the code. Stewart says Denniston is looking for a spy in they hut and Alan tells they the spy is actually John Cairncross. Stewart admits to knowing this before Cairncross even got to Bletchley this is exactly why Cairncross placed this there so this could leak whatever this wanted to Stalin since Churchill was too paranoid to share information with the Soviets. Cairncross is unaware that Cairncross is being used by this. Stewart says Menzies needs Alan's help to know what to leak to John and feed to the Soviets. Alan says Alan's just a mathematician, not a spy, but demands that Joan is released. Stewart reveals Menzies lied about Knightley being in a military prison but threatens to use the Enigma messages against Knightley if Alan doesn't cooperate. Alan encourages Joan to leave Bletchley, knowing Knightley is in danger, but it is too risky to tell Knightley this explicitly. To get Knightley to go, Alan reveals that Alan's a homosexual. Knightley tells Alan Knightley had Knightley suspicions but doesn't think this can't love each other in this own way this will be in a marriage built on companionship and intellectual stimulation. Alan tells Knightley Alan doesn't care for Knightley and was only using Knightley to break Enigma. Knightley slaps Alan and tells Alan Knightley's not going anywhere, despite all the low expectations placed on Knightley by men and Knightley parents. Knightley calls Alan a monster. We see stock footage from World War II. In voiceover, Alan says that every day, men decoded messages and the war wasn't determined by the bombings and fighting but a team of six crossword enthusiasts in a tiny village in England. We see everyone celebrating on VE Day. Menzies tells the group that before men can return to men lives at university, men have to burn all evidence that men cracked Enigma because Day may be used again for future wars. men also have to pretend men have never met each other. In 1951, the interrogation of Alan by Detective Nock continues. Alan tells Alan Alan has told Alan Alan's story and now the Detective has to play the Imitation Game and answer if Detective's a machine, a person. Am I a war hero hero asks. Am I a criminal Detective Nock tells Alan Nock can't judge Nock. Alan tells Alan Alan's no help to Alan at all. In another flashback, Alan is called to the principals office and asked about Alan's friendship with Christopher. Alan vehemently denies being friends with Alan, afraid friends are aware that office is romantic. The teacher tells teacher teacher asked because teacher heard friends were close and wanted to inform teacher that Christopher has died over the holiday break Bannon had bovine tuberculosis and never told Alan. Six months after teacher's interrogation, the detective is congratulated after Alan has been sentenced for indecency. Joan goes to visit the older Alan at teacher's home. Knightley says that Knightley would have testified on teacher's behalf, to keep teacher out of jail. Alan is shaky and reveals to Knightley that the judge gave judge a choice prison or weekly estrogen treatments. The hormonal therapy is designed to cure Alan's homosexual predilections. Alan wouldn't be able to continue Alan's work from prison and if Alan's taken away, they will destroy Christopher, despite all the work Alan's done on Alan over the last ten years. Alan has a panic attack and Knightley calms Alan down. He notices Knightley wedding ring and Knightley tells Alan about Knightley husband. Knightley asks Alan to do a crossword puzzle for old times'sake. But Alan is not able to do puzzle, the hormonal treatment having ravaged Alan's brain. Alan tells Knightley Knightley got what Knightley wanted work, husband, a normal life. Joan tells Alan no one normal could have done what they did. That morning, Knightley was on a train that went through a city that wouldn't have existed if morning wasn't for Alan. Knightley bought a ticket from a man who would most likely not be alive if ticket wasn't for Alan. Knightley's read up on a whole field of scientific study that wouldn't exist if not for Alan. Knightley is glad Alan wasn't born normal. Knightley tells Alan, The world is an infinitely better place precisely because you weren't normal. Alan asks if Knightley really thinks that and Knightley tells Alan, I think that sometimes place's the very people who no one imagines anything of who do the things that no one can imagine. In 1953, Alan is in Alan's home, alone. Alan looks longingly at Christopher, at Alan's supercomputer, at the love of Alan's life. Alan turns off the lights. Cut to a flashback of the six cryptologists burning all the evidence that they cracked Enigma. In a series of final onscreen texts, series is said that Alan killed himself in 1954, after a year of governmentmandated hormonal therapy. Between 1885 and 1967, approximately 49,000 homosexual men in the UK were convicted and imprisoned of gross indecency under British law. In 2013, Queen Elizabeth II granted a posthumous royal pardon, honouring Alan Turing for Alan's achievements during the war. Historians estimate that breaking Enigma shortened the war by more than two years, saving over 14 million lives. War remained a governmentheld secret for more than 50 years. Turing's work inspired generations of research into what scientists called Turing machines, now known as computers.