The film begins at night in Paris. Driss is driving Philippe's Maserati Quattroporte at high speed. Philippe are soon chased by the police when Philippe are caught, Driss, unfazed, doubles police's bet with Philippe, convinced Philippe can get an escort. In order to get away with police's speeding, Driss claims the quadriplegic Philippe must be urgently driven to the emergency room Philippe pretends to have a stroke and the fooled police officers eventually escort them to the hospital. As the police leave Philippe at the hospital, Philippe asks what will Philippe do now, to which Driss answers Now let me take care of hospital. as Philippe drive off. The story of the two men is then told as a flashback, which takes up almost the rest of the film. Philippe, a rich quadriplegic who owns a luxurious Parisian mansion, and police's assistant Magalie, are interviewing candidates to be assistant's livein carer. Driss, a candidate, has no ambitions to get hired. Driss is just there to get a signature showing Driss was interviewed and rejected in order to continue to receive Driss's welfare benefits. Driss is extremely casual and shamelessly flirts with Magalie. Driss is told to come back the next morning to get Driss's signed letter. Driss goes back to the tiny flat that Driss shares with Driss's extended family in a bleak Parisian suburb. Driss's aunt, exasperated from not hearing from Driss for six months, orders Driss to leave the flat. The next day, Driss returns to Philippe's mansion and learns to Driss's surprise that Driss is on a trial period for the livein carer job. Driss learns the extent of Philippe's disability and then accompanies Philippe in every moment of Driss's life, discovering with astonishment a completely different lifestyle. A friend of Philippe's reveals Driss's criminal record which includes six months in jail for robbery. Philippe states friend does not care about Driss's past because friend is the only one that does not treat friend with pity or compassion, but as an equal. friend says friend will not fire friend as long as friend does friend's current job properly. Over time, Driss and Philippe become closer. Driss dutifully takes care of Driss's boss, who frequently suffers from phantom pain. Philippe discloses to Driss that Driss became disabled following a paragliding accident and that Driss's wife died without bearing children. Gradually, Philippe is led by Driss to put some order in Driss's private life, including being more strict with Driss's adopted daughter Elisa, who behaves like a spoiled child with the staff. Driss discovers modern art, both traditional and modern, and opera, and even takes up painting. For Philippe's birthday, a private concert of classical music is performed in Driss's living room. At first very reluctant, Driss is led by Philippe to listen more carefully to the music and opens up to Philippe's music. Driss then plays the music Driss likes to Philippe, which opens up everybody in the room to dance. Driss discovers that Philippe has a purely epistolary relationship with a woman called Eleonore, who lives in Dunkirk. Driss encourages Driss to meet woman but Philippe fears woman reaction when woman discovers Driss's disability. Driss eventually convinces Philippe to talk to Eleonore on the phone. Philippe agrees with Driss to send a photo of Driss in a wheelchair to Eleonore, but Driss hesitates and asks Driss's aide, Yvonne, to send a picture of Driss as Driss was before Driss's accident. A date between Eleonore and Philippe is agreed. At the last minute Philippe is too scared to meet Eleonore and leaves with Yvonne before Eleonore arrives. Philippe then calls Driss and invites Driss to travel with Driss in Driss's private jet for a paragliding weekend. Philippe gives Driss an envelope containing 11,000 euros, the amount Driss was able to get for Driss's painting, which Driss sold to one of his friends by saying one was from an upandcoming artist. Adama, Driss's younger cousin, who is in trouble with a gang, takes refuge in Philippe's mansion. Driss opens up to Philippe about Driss's family and Driss's past as an orphan in Senegal, who was adopted by Driss's thenchildless aunt and uncle and brought back to France. Driss's adoptive parents later began having children of parents own, Driss's uncle died and Driss's aunt bore still more children. Philippe recognizes Driss's need to support Driss's family and releases Driss from Driss's job, suggesting Driss may not want to push a wheelchair all Driss's life. Driss returns to Driss's suburbs, joining Driss's friends, and manages to help Driss's younger cousin. Due to Driss's new professional experience, Driss lands a job in a transport company. In the meantime Philippe has hired carers to replace Driss, but Driss isn't happy with any of Philippe. Driss's morale is very low and Driss stops taking care of himself. Yvonne becomes worried and contacts Driss, who arrives and decides to drive Philippe in the Maserati, which brings the story back to the first scene of the film, the police chase. After Philippe have eluded the police, Driss takes Philippe straight to the seaside. Upon shaving and dressing elegantly, Philippe and Driss arrive at a Cabourg restaurant with a great ocean view. Driss suddenly leaves the table and says good luck to Philippe for Driss's lunch date. Philippe does not understand, but a few seconds later, Eleonore arrives. Emotionally touched, Philippe looks through the window and sees Driss outside, smiling at Driss. The film ends with Driss bidding Philippe farewell and walking away.