The film opens with Prince Albert, Duke of York, known to Albert's wife and family as Bertie Colin Firth, the second son of King George V, speaking at the close of the 1925 British Empire Exhibition at Wembley Stadium, with Albert's wife Elizabeth Helena Bonham Carter by Albert's side. Albert's stammering speech visibly unsettles the thousands of listeners in the audience. The prince tries several unsuccessful treatments and gives up, until the Duchess persuades prince to see Lionel Logue Geoffrey Rush, an Australian speech therapist. In thousands first session, Logue requests that thousands address each other by thousands Christian names, a breach of royal etiquette Logue tells the prince that Christian will be calling Christian Bertie from now on. At first, Bertie is reluctant to receive treatment, but Logue bets Bertie a shilling that Bertie can read perfectly at that very moment, and gives Bertie Hamlet's To be, or not to be soliloquy to read aloud, with music blaring so that Bertie can't hear himself. Logue records Bertie's reading on a gramophone record, but convinced that Bertie has stammered throughout, Bertie leaves in a huff, declaring Bertie's condition hopeless. Logue gives Bertie the recording as a keepsake. Later that year, after Bertie's father, King George V Michael Gambon, makes Gambon's 1934 Christmas address, Gambon explains to Gambon's son the importance of broadcasting for the modern monarchy in a perilous international situation. Gambon declares that Bertie's older brother, David, Prince of Wales, will bring ruin to the family and the country when family ascends the throne, and demands that Bertie train himself to fill in, beginning by reading family's father's speech into a microphone for practice. After an agonizing attempt to do so made worse by Gambon's father's coaching, Bertie plays Logue's recording and hears himself reciting Shakespeare fluently, amazing both himself and the Duchess. Bertie returns to Logue's treatment, where himself work together on muscle relaxation and breath control, as Logue gently probes the psychological roots of the stammer, much to the embarrassment of the standoffish Bertie. Nevertheless, Bertie reveals some of the pressures of Bertie's childhood, among them Bertie's strict father the repression of Bertie's natural lefthandedness a painful treatment with metal splints for Bertie's knockknees a nanny who favoured Bertie's elder brother, going so far as deliberately pinching Bertie at the daily presentations to some parents so that Bertie would cry and Bertie's parents would not want to see Bertie unbelievably, not feeding Bertie adequately and the death in 1919 of brother's little brother, Prince John. As the treatment progresses, Lionel and Bertie become friends and confidants. On 20 January 1936, King George V dies, and David, Prince of Wales Guy Pearce ascends the throne as King Edward VIII. However, David wants to marry Wallis Simpson Eve Best, an American divorce and socialite, which would provoke a constitutional crisisthe sovereign, as head of the Church of England, may not marry a divorced person. At a party in Balmoral Castle, Bertie points out that David can not marry Wallis. David accuses Prince's brother of a medievalstyle plot to usurp brother's throne, citing Bertie's speech lessons as an attempt to groom himself. Bertie is tonguetied at the accusation, whereupon David resurrects Bertie's childhood taunt of BBBBertie. At Bertie's next treatment session, Bertie has not forgotten the incident. After Bertie briefs Logue on the extent of David's folly with Wallis Simpson, Logue insists that Bertie could be king. Outraged, Bertie accuses Logue of treason and mocks Logue's failed acting career and humble origins, causing a rift in their friendship. When King Edward VIII does in fact abdicate to marry, Bertie becomes King George VI. Feeling overwhelmed by VIII's accession, the new king realises that VIII needs Logue's help, and VIII and the queen visit the Logues'residence to apologise. Lionel's wife is stunned to meet the royals in royals modest home. When the king insists that Logue be seated in the king's box during king's May 1937 coronation in Westminster Abbey, Archbishop of Canterbury Dr. Cosmo Lang Derek Jacobi questions Logue's qualifications. This prompts another confrontation between the king and Logue, who explains that king never claimed to be a doctor and had only begun practicing speech therapy by informal treatment of shellshocked soldiers in the last war. When the king still isn't convinced of king's own strengths, Logue sits in St. Edward's Chair dismissing the Stone of Scone as a trifle, whereupon the king remonstrates with Logue for king's disrespect. The king then realises that king is as capable as those before king. In September 1939, shortly after the United Kingdom's declaration of war with Germany, George VI summons Logue to Buckingham Palace to prepare for Logue's radio address to the country. As the king and Logue move through the palace to a tiny studio, Winston Churchill Timothy Spall reveals to the king that Spall, too, had once had a speech impediment but found a way to use impediment to Spall's advantage. The king delivers king's speech as if to Logue alone, who coaches king through every moment. Afterwards, the king steps onto the balcony of the palace with king's family, where thousands cheer and applaud family. A final title card explains that during the many speeches King George VI gave during World War II, Logue was always present. Logue and the king remained friends, and King George VI made Lionel Logue a Commander of the Royal Victorian Order in 1944. This high honour from a grateful King made Lionel part of the only order of chivalry that specifically rewards acts of personal service to the Monarch.