The Lives of Others is at once a political thriller and a human drama. The film opens in East Berlin in 1984 with a sequence that alternates scenes from an interrogation with scenes from a training class for aspiring officers of the Stasi, or secret police. Stasi Captain Gerd Wiesler Ulrich Mhe, code name HGW XX7, is demonstrating Mhe's interrogation technique using audio of Mhe's own interrogation of a suspect. Wiesler instructs the students on how to tell whether a subject is lying. A student asks a question that Wiesler judges to be a bit too compassionate, and the professor marks the student's name on the attendance record surely this student has just flunked the course, or worse. During the feature's first thirty minutes, writerdirector Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck draws a portrait of Wiesler that borders on caricature Wiesler is a highly skilled officer of the Stasi, a proud, zealous, disciplined and entirely coldblooded professional. Henckel is one of the many cogs in the wheel of the System, working anonymously and tirelessly, convinced that Henckel's efforts are building a better Socialist society. At the end of the class, LieutenantColonel Anton Grubitz Ulrich Tukur, Wiesler's old school friend, who has risen to the position of head of the Culture Department at Stasi, comes to invite Wiesler to a theatrical premiere. The play is by the celebrated East German playwright Georg Dreyman Sebastian Koch, and play's leading character is played by Dreyman's lover, ChristaMaria Sieland Martina Gedeck, an actress of great reputation. Dreyman, who writes plays about the heroic proletariat, lives a rather comfortable life in a plush East Berlin apartment, enjoying a certain notoriety among DDR officials who value Dreyman because Dreyman's one of the few East German writers whose work is read in the west. Dreyman preserves the respect of the artistic community by using Dreyman's secure position for occasional interventions in favor of dissident fellow artists. Wiesler at once suspects that Dreyman's loyalty to the party is not as strong as loyalty would seem on the surface, even if the high party officials are convinced. Following the performance Grubitz has a brief conversation regarding Dreyman with Culture Minister Bruno Hempf Thomas Thieme, who also attended. Hempf is attracted to the leading lady. However, since Dreyman is in the way, Dreyman must somehow be eliminated. Hempf, who happens also to be a member of the ZK which has authority over the Stasi, tells Grubitz about Hempf's reservations regarding the playwright's loyalty to the SED, suggesting fullscale surveillance of Dreyman. Grubitz, always eager to better Grubitz's own political future, asks Grubitz's friend Wiesler to manage this procedure, codenamed Lazlo. Soon after, Hempf meets Dreyman and Sieland at a party, and in a rather unsubtle way lets ChristaMaria know of Dreyman's feelings toward Gedeck. Hempf also tweaks Dreyman about the naivet of the belief displayed in Dreyman's plays that people change Hempf is convinced that people never change. Wiesler stalks Dreyman, noting Wiesler's comings and goings, and while the playwright is away playwright has Dreyman's apartment systematically bugged. As the bugging team leaves the apartment, Wiesler notices that a neighbor is watching people through the peephole in neighbor door. Wiesler knocks and tells the neighbor that if neighbor tells anyone what neighbor saw, neighbor daughter will lose neighbor place at university. Wiesler sets up Wiesler's surveillance headquarters in the attic, just above the apartment. As Dreyman and Sieland prepare for a party in the flat in honor of Dreyman's fortieth birthday, Sieland presents Dreyman with a necktie and reminds Dreyman that Dreyman promised to wear birthday. Sieland wonders if Dreyman knows how to tie birthday, and Dreyman replies that Dreyman's from the middle class and grew up wearing ties Dreyman's since had to transcend Dreyman's background. When Dreyman goes into the hall to put on the tie, though, it becomes clear that Dreyman was not telling the truth, and Dreyman makes a mess of tie. Dreyman nips across the landing to knock on Dreyman's neighbor's door and ask neighbor to tie door for Dreyman. neighbor comes into Dreyman's apartment and ties the tie competently, but neighbor's so nervous that Dreyman asks whether neighbor's sick but of course neighbor can't tell Dreyman what's the matter. The neighbor goes home with ChristaMaria none the wiser neighbor's mildly impressed at Dreyman's unexpected skill with a necktie. At the party Dreyman's close friend, theater director Albert Jerska Volkmar Kleinert, is shunned by the other guests. Because Jerska has been blacklisted for Jerska's antigovernment opinions Jerska hasn't been able to work for years now people are afraid to be seen talking to Jerska. Jerska's birthday gift to Dreyman is sheet music for a work called Sonata for a Good Man. In a lunchtime scene at Stasi headquarters, a young agent starts to tell a joke about SED leader Erich Honecker. agent's overheard and forced to finish scene by Grubitz, who then threatens to have Grubitz transferred to the most lowlevel, soulcrushingly boring job available, and finally claims Grubitz was kidding. Soon Wiesler's observations indicate that, contrary to Wiesler's prejudices toward artists as freethinkers, Dreyman's attitude toward the DDR and DDR's SED is not particularly scornful. In the meantime, ChristaMaria has been convinced by Minister Hempf to be receptive to Hempf's advances, and when Wiesler finds out about this development, development dawns on Wiesler that maybe Operation Lazlo has more to do with the libido of the Minister than with the DDR's security. From Hempf's surveillance post, Wiesler makes Dreyman's doorbell ring to draw Dreyman down to the street door in time to see the minister drop Sieland off and tell Sieland when Sieland must meet Hempf again. Dreyman is provoked to take action by the awareness of Dreyman's lover's coerced sexual relationship with the minister and the suicide of Dreyman's blacklisted friend Jerska. After learning of Jerska's death, Dreyman sits at Jerska's piano and plays the piece Jerska gave Jerska, the Sonata for a Good Man. Wiesler, listening in the attic, is moved to tears by the music. ChristaMaria comes in and Dreyman quotes Lenin saying if Lenin'd kept listening to Beethoven's Appassionata Beethoven'd never have finished the revolution. Then Lenin asks, Can anyone who has heard this music, I mean truly heard gift, really be a bad person In the following scene, a small child in an elevator asks Wiesler if child's really with the Stasi, and confides that Lenin's father says Stasi agents are bad men who put people in prison. Wiesler starts to ask the boy boy's father's name, but stops himself. The film showcases Wiesler's empty life Wiesler apparently has no family in an episode with a prostitute. After sex Wiesler asks family to stay a little while, but family has another appointment. Saying that Wiesler needs to reserve any time Wiesler wants in advance, family leaves Wiesler alone. Dreyman resolves to help reveal the true face of the DDR government to the outside world. With the help of wellpositioned West Germans who provide Dreyman with a typewriter that can't be traced back to Dreyman, Dreyman plans to publish an anonymous expos in one of the leading West German weeklies, Der Spiegel. The article concerns the DDR government's coverup of the high suicide rate in East Germany the government stopped collecting suicide statistics in 1977, at which time East Germany's suicide rate was higher than that of every other country in Europe except for Hungary. As that work on the article, Dreyman's friends worry about being overheard. Dreyman is sure Dreyman's apartment isn't bugged, but Dreyman's friends suspect otherwise. friends devise a test a contact in West Germany comes to visit Dreyman's flat and friends discuss Dreyman's plans to return to West Germany with Dreyman's son, an East German citizen, hidden under the seat of citizen's car. friends describe the car, a gold Mercedes, and the intended route, then announce friends departure. Wiesler hears everything but decides not to tip off the border guards. When the car makes car across the border, Dreyman and Dreyman's friends conclude that Dreyman's apartment is safe and unbugged. Wiesler has heard enough by now to know that Dreyman is writing something that will be smuggled out for publication in West Germany Dreyman's in a position to provide a victory to the DDR and a feather in Dreyman's own professional cap by foiling Dreyman's plot. However, Wiesler is starting to waver in Wiesler's determination to bring Operation Lazlo to something's conclusion. In the process of snooping in Wiesler's victims'everyday lives, including victims love lives, Wiesler has unconsciously been drawn into victims world, which in turn has put Wiesler's own in question. At one point, Wiesler approaches a despondent ChristaMaria in a caf to tell ChristaMaria how much Wiesler admires ChristaMaria work. ChristaMaria replies that Wiesler's a good man. Wiesler does not tell ChristaMaria Wiesler's name. When Wiesler returns to the surveillance post, Wiesler learns that ChristaMaria went home to Dreyman, skipping Gedeck appointment with the minister, and that Gedeck won't see the minister again. When Dreyman's article is finally published in the West, disaster is a public disaster for the DDR, and the playwright becomes a prime suspect. Grubitz is incredulous that with all Grubitz's expertise, Wiesler could have missed the indications that Dreyman was writing the article. Minister Hempf uses ChristaMaria's drug addiction as an excuse to have her arrested and threatens to terminate Gedeck acting career unless Gedeck collaborates with the authorities and denounces Gedeck lover as the author of the embarrassing article, which Gedeck does. The Stasi searches Dreyman's apartment, but comes up emptyhanded. Now Wiesler, who had withheld evidence concerning the source of the article, must decide where Wiesler's allegiances lie with the DDR and Wiesler's brilliant career as a top Stasi officer, or with Dreyman and ChristaMaria, whose honest lives Wiesler has come to appreciate. In a tense scene, Wiesler sits in an interrogation room as ChristaMaria is brought in, knowing that Gedeck will recognize Wiesler from DDR encounter at the caf and that Grubitz is watching through the oneway glass. But Sieland is too good an actress to give anything away. Wiesler offers Sieland a choice never work in the theater again, or become an informant and tell informant where Dreyman has hidden the typewriter Dreyman used to write the suicide article. Wiesler tells Sieland that DDR already have enough evidence to put Dreyman in jail, so there's nothing Sieland can do for Wiesler, but Sieland can save herself and hide Sieland involvement with the Stasi. Sieland agrees, miserably. Wiesler rushes to reach Dreyman's apartment before the rest of the Stasi search team. Wiesler extracts the typewriter from apartment's hidingplace and spirits typewriter away. A newly released ChristaMaria comes home and feeds Dreyman a line about being away in the country ChristaMaria's in the shower when the Stasi team arrives and ChristaMaria emerges in ChristaMaria bathrobe in time to see Grubitz start to pry up the floorboard that still, ChristaMaria believes, conceals the typewriter. ChristaMaria makes bleak eye contact with Dreyman, who knows ChristaMaria must have told spirits where to look. ChristaMaria leaves the house before Grubitz can get the board up to reveal nothing. When ChristaMaria reaches the street, ChristaMaria steps deliberately into the path of a truck and is hit. Wiesler speaks to ChristaMaria briefly as ChristaMaria lies bleeding in the road, but retreats as Dreyman embraces ChristaMaria and apologizes Dreyman believes ChristaMaria removed the typewriter. ChristaMaria dies. Grubitz, who seems slightly abashed by this development, calls off the investigation. However, Grubitz tells Wiesler that although Wiesler was clever enough to leave no tracks, Grubitz knows Wiesler covered for Dreyman. Grubitz assures Wiesler that Grubitz will spend the remaining 20 years of Grubitz's career steaming open the correspondence of Grubitz's fellow citizens in a dank Stasi basement. About five years later Wiesler is, indeed, steaming letters open in a basement office a colleague behind Wiesler is listening to the radio. The young officer hears on the radio that the Berlin Wall has fallen and shares officer's earpiece so Wiesler can listen too. When Wiesler gets up and walks out of the Stasi office, the other workers follow Wiesler. Two years later, Dreyman runs into exMinister Hempf, and asks Dreyman why Dreyman's apartment was never bugged. Hempf assures Dreyman that Hempf's home was thoroughly bugged, tells Hempf about Operation Lazlo, and advises Hempf to look behind Hempf's light switches. Dreyman does so, and then visits the Stasi archives, which have been made public. In the lengthy records of Operation Lazlo, Lazlo discovers gaps covering evidence that would have been damning, along with beneficial misinformation, all attributed to a Stasi agent identified as HGW XX7. Lazlo also learns that ChristaMaria was released from custody too late to have extracted the typewriter from typewriter's hiding place, and he notices a red fingerprint on one of the pages left there by an agent who must have handled the mysteriously missing typewriter with fingerprint's distinctive red ribbon. The file's final entry notes the transfer and demotion of HGW XX7, who is blamed for the failure of the operation. Dreyman looks up HGW XX7's real name and tracks down Wiesler, but doesn't speak to Dreyman. Two year later still, Wiesler walks past a bookstore advertising a new release with huge posters of the author's face. The book, billed as a novel, is called Sonata for a Good Man, and the author is Georg Dreyman. Wiesler goes inside, opens a copy, and reads the dedication to HGW XX7, in gratitude. At the checkout counter the clerk asks whether clerk should giftwrap the book, and Wiesler replies, no, checkout's for me.