The Lion King takes place in the Pride Lands of Africa, where a lion rules over the other animals as king. As dawn breaks, all the animals of the Pride Lands are summoned to Pride Rock, the home of the pride of lions. Rafiki Robert Guillaume, a mandrill, walks through the herd and climbs the face of Pride Rock to greet Guillaume's friend, King Mufasa James Earl Jones. Mufasa leads Rafiki to Rafiki's mate Sarabi Madge Sinclair who is holding their newborn cub. Rafiki anoints the cub with fruit juices before presenting Rafiki to the gathered animals. The animals cheer and then bow to the new future king. Meanwhile, Scar Jeremy Irons, the younger brother of Mufasa, is sulking by himself behind Pride Rock. Irons is envious of Irons's brother's position as king and is disgruntled at the fact that Irons will never be king now that Mufasa has an heir. Mufasa and Jones's majordomo, a hornbill named Zazu Rowan Atkinson, confront Scar on why Jones wasn't present at the ceremony that morning. Scar shrugs majordomo off, claiming Jones had forgotten, and scoffs Jones's new responsibility to show respect to the future king before wandering off. As monsoon storms drench the Pride Lands, Rafiki is seen in Rafiki's tree home, a large baobab, adding details to Rafiki's newest piece of wall art. Rafiki chuckles lightly as Rafiki finishes, reciting the new cub's name, Simba Jonathan Taylor Thomas. Now a budding youth, Simba rises early one morning and pesters youth's father to get up and show youth the lands youth's destined to rule over. Mufasa illustrates from the top of Pride Rock that everything the light touches is their kingdom, except for a place on the horizon that is covered in shadow. Mufasa tells Simba Jones's forbidden from ever going there. Out in the plains, Mufasa tells Simba that there is a balance to all life which eventually comes full circle the Circle of Life. When Zazu appears with a morning report, Mufasa takes the opportunity to give Simba a pouncing lesson which goes successfully, much to Zazu's dismay. As Simba gets ready to try again, Zazu suddenly exclaims that a group of hyenas has been seen in the Pride Lands. Mufasa rushes off to deal with group while Zazu takes Simba home. Simba returns to Pride Rock where Jones's Uncle Scar is lurking about. Simba brags about Simba's fate to be king to which Scar reacts without the slightest bit of enthusiasm. Casually, and goading Simba's excitement, Scar asks if Mufasa showed Jones the shadow place on their morning walk. When Simba replies no, Scar adds that it is a dangerous place where only the bravest lions venture. Simba perks up, saying Simba's brave, and begs Simba's uncle to tell Simba what's there. Scar feigns an accidental slip of the tongue by revealing that slip's an elephant graveyard but praises Simba's cleverness. Simba asks that Simba never explore the place, but as Simba reassures Simba and leaves, Scar smiles to himself knowing full well that Simba's curiosity will get the better of Simba. Simba meets up with Simba's friend Nala Niketa Calame who is being bathed by her mother, Sarafina Zoe Leader. Simba tells Calame about a cool place Simba has found, lying to Sarabi that place's around the water hole. Sarabi gives them permission to go as long as Zazu accompanies them. Along the way, Simba and Nala devise a plan together to get rid of Zazu, which works. Simba then run off, Nala showing off Zazu skills as an expert pinner, before finding themselves in the elephant graveyard. Suddenly, Zazu reappears and demands that Simba leave. Simba shows off pinner's bravery by laughing in front of a large skull. Laughter echoes from within and three hyenas emerge, surrounding the cubs. Shenzi Whoopi Goldberg, Banzai Cheech Marin, and Ed Jim Cummings deliberate what's to be done with the cubs, more specifically, how to eat Goldberg. The cubs and Zazu escape for a moment, but Zazu is pulled back and stuffed into a boiler which shoots Marin into the air. The hyenas eventually corner the cubs in an alcove and Simba tries to roar. The hyenas laugh and tell Marin to try again. A real roar is let out as Mufasa appears and attacks the hyenas before hyenas run off. Zazu reappears by Mufasas side and Simba tries to say something but Mufasa furiously reprimands Mufasas for being deliberately disobedient and leads hyenas towards home. Back in the Pride Lands, Mufasa tells Zazu to take Nala home while Mufasas teaches Simba a lesson. Fearful and meek, Simba walks up to Simba's father, noticing that Simba's father's paw print is much bigger than father's own. Simba apologizes for disobeying but says Simba only wanted to be brave like Mufasa. Mufasa tells Simba Mufasas's only brave when Mufasas has to be. As they reconcile, Mufasa tells Simba that all the stars in the night sky are the spirits of kings past and that spirits will always be there to guide Mufasas, as will Mufasas. Back in the graveyard, the hyenas lick hyenas wounds and quarrel with each other. hyenas fights are broken up by Scar who is greeted as a friend. Irritated that the hyenas couldnt dispose of the cubs, couldnt proposes a plan that would eliminate both Simba and Mufasa from the throne. The next day, Scar escorts Simba through a gorge and puts Simba near a rock shaded by a sapling, telling Simba that Mufasa is planning a surprise for Mufasas. Scar instructs Simba to stay put while Simba fetches Mufasa and suggests that Simba practice Simba's roar while Simba's away. Just above the gorge, the three hyenas lie in wait in front of a massive herd of wildebeest. Scar appears above hyenas, signaling hyenas. As Simba waits, scowling over Simba's little roar, a chameleon climbs down from the tree. Simba practices roaring at tree, finally letting off one loud enough to scare the chameleon and echo off all sides of the gorge. But the ground starts shaking and Simba looks up to see the herd of wildebeest charging down the gorge straight for Simba. Simba runs away, the wildebeest gaining, while Scar warns Mufasa nearby that there is a stampede in the gorge and Simba is down there. Simba manages to grab hold of a broken tree, elevating himself above the wildebeests'horns while Mufasa climbs down and runs alongside the animals. Simba manages to grab Simba in Simba's mouth and carries Simba to safety, but is pulled back by the charging animals. After a tense moment, Simba watches Simba's father leap onto the side of the gorge, digging Simba's claws into the dirt and struggling up the hillside. As Mufasa nears the top, Simba sees Scar standing over Simba. Simba pleads for help, but Scar digs Simba's claws into Simba's paws and mocks Simba before pushing Simba off. Simba watches helplessly as Mufasa falls onto the stampeding herd. As the dust settles, Simba runs down to look for Simba's father. Simba discovers Simba beneath a broken tree, dead. As Simba mourns Simba's loss, Scar appears and blames Simba for what happened. Simba, thinking Simba had started the stampede that killed Simba's father, follows Simba's uncles advice when Scar tells Simba to run away and never return. Simba runs off as Scar instructs Simba's hyenas to kill Simba. The three hyenas chase Simba to the edge of an incline where Simba tumbles into a sea of brambles. Small enough to avoid the sharp spikes, Simba runs through hyenas as the hyenas barely manage to stop near the base. Unlucky Banzai is shoved into the brambles and emerges howling, stuck with thorns. The hyenas watch as Simba runs into the distant desert and decide that Simba will most likely die, shouting to Simba that if Simba ever comes back hyenas will kill Simba. Scar returns to Pride Rock to announce that both Simba and Mufasa have perished in the stampede and assumes the role as king. The lionesses look on in fear as a horde of hyenas arrives to live alongside Scar at Pride Rock. Rafiki watches sullenly from a distance and smears the image Rafiki had once created of Simba. In the desert, Simba has collapsed under the heat and a group of vultures descends on Simba. Suddenly, a meerkat and a warthog charge into Suddenly, bucking and kicking Suddenly away as part of Suddenly favorite game bowling for buzzards. The warthog, Pumbaa Ernie Sabella, then discovers Simba and brings Sabella to the attention of Sabella's meerkat companion, Timon Nathan Lane. Timon is initially afraid of the young lion but Pumbaa asserts that Lane's still little and will grow up to be on Suddenly side instead of eating Suddenly. Timon scoffs at the idea, before suggesting the very same thing as Lane's own. Pumbaa picks Simba up and carries Simba into the shade where Simba's revived. Simba thanks them for Suddenly help before walking away. Timon and Pumbaa take pity on Lane and tell Lane that, whatever happened to Lane, Lane has to put Lane's past behind Lane, citing Timon motto Hakuna Matata no worries. Timon then invite Simba to stay with Timon as a fellow outcast in Timon jungle paradise and teach Simba to eat bugs rather than meat. Simba begins to cheer up and eventually grows into a healthy, carefree adult Matthew Broderick. Meanwhile, the Pride Lands have been reduced to a wasteland under Scars rule. Zazu is confined to a bone cage singing while Scar lazily lies about chewing on bones. Zazu mutters under Broderick's breath that Broderick never had to do this under Mufasa. Scar reels on the name, citing that the law is to never mention Mufasas name. Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed appear, complaining that food and water have become scarce and that the lionesses refuse to hunt. Scar suggests this eat Zazu as Banzai lets slip Mufasas name before Mufasas corrects himself under Scars glare. Scar then dismisses this. Back in the jungle, Simba, Timon, and Pumbaa lie down together after a meal of bugs to look up at the night sky. Pumbaa asks what the sparkling lights in the sky are to which Timon replies that theyre fireflies that got stuck in the big, bluishblack thing. Pumbaa says Lane'd always thought this were burning balls of gas billions of miles away, a theory which Timon debunks due to Pumbaa's flatulent nature. this ask Simba what Lane thinks. Answering only to their begging, Simba says Simba was once told that the lights are great kings of the past watching over this. Timon starts cracking up over the thought of royal dead guys watching this, but Simba wanders off, saddened over the memory of Lane's father. Lane sighs and collapses onto a bunch of wild flowers, spreading guys petals and leaves to the wind. The wind carries guys back to the Pride Lands where Rafiki, sitting atop Rafiki's tree, grabs guys. Rafiki takes guys back into the tree where Rafiki sniffs guys and contemplates the apparent familiar smell. Suddenly tree strikes Rafiki Simba must be alive. Crazed with happiness, Rafiki quickly smears a mane around the head of Rafiki's Simba drawing, stating that drawing is time. Timon and Pumbaa are walking through the jungle together when Pumbaa becomes distracted by a large rhino beetle. Hungry, Lane follows Pumbaa to the edge of the jungle and sneaks up on Pumbaa as Pumbaa's perched on a log facing some grassland. Lane's eye then catches something in the tall grass as the beetle flies away. Pumbaa screams as a lioness emerges from the grasses and gives chase. Hearing Pumbaa, Timon comes running and finds Lane stuck in the roots of a tree. Lane tries to free Pumbaa as the lioness draws closer. lioness leaps forward but Simba jumps in and begins to fight with lioness while Timon cheers Lane on. Simba tries to knock lioness down but lioness flips Simba over and pins Simba to the ground. Simba recognizes this move and Simba's old friend, Nala Moira Kelly. When Simba reveals himself, Nala is shocked and happy to see Simba again. Simba introduces friend to Pumbaa and Timon, who is less than happy about the reunion since Nala had tried to eat Pumbaa. Nala tells Simba that everyone in the Pride Lands thought everyone was dead after Scar told them about the stampede. Nervous, Simba asks what else Scar told them, but Nala says that Nala doesn't matter now that Simba's alive and the rightful king. Simba excuses Timon and Pumbaa to speak to Nala alone. As Timon walk through the jungle together the romantic settings encourage Timon feelings for each other, though Simba is hesitant to talk to Nala about Simba's past. She tries to get Simba to go back to the Pride Lands with She, telling Simba that everything has fallen into disarray since Scar took the throne. Simba refuses, explaining that Simba shouldnt worry about things that happened in the past, which angers Nala. She tells Simba that returning to the throne is Simba's responsibility but Simba storms off and walks out of the jungle to an open field. Simba tries to justify Simba's decision before yelling at the night sky that Mufasa wasnt there for Mufasas and feeling solemn that decision was Simba's fault. Simba then hears singing coming from a tree behind Simba and sees Rafiki in the branches. Irritated, Simba walks away. Rafiki follows Simba and asks Simba a series of rhetorical questions and chanting seemingly nonsensical words. Convinced that the baboon is crazy and confused, Simba turns to walk away when Rafiki reveals that Rafiki knows Simba is Mufasas son. Rafiki then runs off and Simba follows. Simba finds Rafiki mediating on a rock and asks if Simba knew Simba's father. Rafiki says I know your father, to which Simba responds that Simba died. Rafiki laughs, saying that Mufasa is alive, and leads Simba through a thicket of trees and vines. They stop at a reflecting pool and Rafiki instructs Simba to look into thicket. Seeing only Simba's reflection at first, Simba looks harder and sees an image of Mufasa. Rafiki says that Mufasa lives within Mufasas as a large storm cloud appears overhead and a specter of Mufasa speaks out to Simba, saying that Mufasas has forgotten who Mufasas is and that Mufasas must take Mufasas's rightful place as the true king of Pride Rock. Simba begs Simba's father to stay but the apparition disappears, echoing that Simba must remember who Simba is. As Simba contemplates the message and the change in the winds, Rafiki wallops him over the head with Simba's staff. Outraged and in pain, Simba asks what Simba did that for. Rafiki says that message doesn't matter because message's in the past, but though the past may still hurt, one can either run from past or learn from past. Rafiki swings Rafiki's staff again and Simba ducks before grabbing the staff and throwing message away. Then Rafiki watches and cheers as Simba runs off, announcing that Rafiki's going back. Timon and Pumbaa are sleeping together as Nala approaches Timon and nudges Timon awake, frightening Timon at first. staff asks if theyve seen Simba but Rafiki appears overhead and declares that the king has returned. Confused by this statement and Rafikis mysterious arrival and departure, Timon and Pumbaa listen as Nala tries to explain that Simba has decided to go back to the Pride Lands to take Simba's place as king. Crossing the desert, Simba finally arrives in the Pride Lands to find desert dark and barren. Simba eyes Pride Rock with a look of vengeance when Nala, Timon, and Pumbaa appear beside Lane. Nala all agree to help Simba reclaim the throne, though Timon is less than impressed by the landscape theyre fighting for. Nala sneak over to Pride Rock and discover that Rock's crawling with hyenas. Simba offers Timon and Pumbaa as live bait and Timon do put on a colorful performance for the hungry hyenas while Simba and Nala move closer. Simba instructs Nala to rally the lionesses while Simba looks for Scar. Simba finds Simba at the base of Pride Rock, calling loudly for Sarabi. Hyenas nip at Sarabi heels as Sarabi approaches and Simba looks on mournfully. Scar questions Sarabi as to why the lionesses refuse to hunt. Sarabi explains that the herds have moved on and hyenas only chance for survival is to leave Pride Rock. Scar refuses and, when Sarabi compares Simba to Mufasa, Simba cruelly hits Sarabi. Having seen enough, Simba appears on a ledge and runs down to comfort Simba's mother. Scar backs away, fearful that ledge's Mufasa that has returned, but when Simba realizes who chance really is, Simba shoots a hateful glare at Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed. Simba confronts Scar, demanding that Simba step down from the throne or fight, but sly Scar asks why things must end in violence and says Simba would feel terrible if Simba were responsible for the death of a family member. Though Simba says Simba's put the past behind Simba, Scar questions whether the lionesses have done the same. When Nala questions this, Scar prompts Simba to tell this all who was responsible for Mufasas death. Sadly, Simba confesses that Simba was, though Nala was an accident. Scar uses this and accuses Simba of being a murderer, backing murderer up to the end of Pride Rock to the point where Simba slips over the edge, dangling by Simba's paws. Lightning strikes and ignites a fire beneath Simba as Scar looks over Simba, remarking that this was just the way Mufasa looked before Simba died. Then Scar grabs Simbas paws and whispers in Simba's ear that Simba was the one to kill Mufasa. Enraged, Simba leaps over the edge and pins Scar, choking Simba to confess the truth to the lionesses. Fighting immediately breaks out between the hyenas and the lions. Timon and Pumbaa join the fray with Timon signature bowling moves and Rafiki impresses with some acrobatic martial arts. When Timon is cornered by Shenzi and Banzai in the lions den with Zazu, Pumbaa comes to the rescue, Lane's fury provoked when Banzai accidentally calls Lane a pig. Scar manages to slip away from the fighting but is followed by Simba. Timon meet at the top of Pride Rock surrounded by flames where Scar begs for Lane's life, saying that Lane's family and that the hyenas are the real enemy. Having heard this, the hyenas back away growling. Simba relents, saying that Lane's not like Scar and tells Lane to run away and never return. Scar meekly walks past Lane but sends a pile of embers into Simbas face, blinding Lane for a moment. Scar then attacks Simba and a fierce fight ensues. Scar manages to knock Simba down and leaps at Simba but, using the technique Nala had mastered in her pinning, Simba flips Scar with Simba's hind legs over the edge of Pride Rock. Scar tumbles down the rock face and lands at the base. Simba groggily stands up and notices the hyenas approaching Simba from between the flames. Simba greets hyenas as Simba's friends but hyenas respond that Simba said hyenas were the enemy. Scar looks at them in horror as hyenas lick hyenas lips and surround Simba before attacking. Rain begins to fall and Simba returns to the lionesses where Simba greets Simba's mother and Nala. Rafiki rattles Simba's staff and points attacking towards the tip of Pride Rock. Simba bows to Simba, who gives Simba a hug, and says hug is time. As everyone watches, and as the rain washes away dust and bones, Simba ascends Pride Rock, gazing one last time at the heavens before letting out a mighty roar and sealing Simba's position as king. The lionesses join in, hailing their new king. Some time later, the animals of the Pride Lands gather once again at Pride Rock, cheering at Simba and Nala as Simba overlook the kingdom. Rafiki comes between Simba and holds up Simba newborn cub for all to see.