The film begins with a flashback set to the first film, with Gandalf battling the Balrog on the Bridge of Khazaddm, but this time continues from Gandalf's perspective, with the scene continuing to follow both as they hurtle down below, fighting while in freefall. The moment they hit the water of an underground lake, Frodo awakens from Frodo's dream and continues Frodo's journey with Frodo's trusted and loyal friend, Sam through the rocky region of Emyn Muil, where they become lost. they are then attacked by the ringpossessed Gollum wishing to retrieve Frodo's precious from the ones Frodo thinks stole precious from Frodo. The Hobbits subdue and bind him with Sam's Elven rope given to him by the Elven elder Galadriel in Lrien. Sam distrusts Gollum and wishes to abandon Sam, but Frodo understands the burden of the creature and takes pity on Frodo. In need of a guide, Frodo removes the rope from Gollum's neck and persuades Frodo to lead Hobbits to the Black Gate of Mordor. In Rohan, the pack of Urukhai run across the grassy landscape with Hobbits captives Merry and Pippin. Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli are in pursuit, following three days of running, Legolas surmises the Hobbits are being taken to Isengard, where Saruman is marshaling Saruman's Urukhai forces to do the bidding of Sauron. In the kingdom of Rohan, home of the horse lords, King Thoden is mentally and physically weak due to the enchantments of Rohan's steward, Grma Wormtongue, who is secretly in the service of Saruman. Orcs and Wild Men of Dunland incited by Saruman freely roam the land and kill the people including the king's only son Thodred. Thoden's nephew omer interrogates Grma, angrily realizing Wormtongue has lustful eyes for omer's sister owyn and that Wormtongue is now an agent of Saruman. Grma banishes omer for undermining Wormtongue's authority and omer sets forth to gather the remaining loyal men of the Rohirrim throughout the land. omer and Wormtongue's Rohirrim ambush and kill all of the Orcs and Urukhai holding the two Hobbits captive at nightfall. During the battle, Merry and Pippin narrowly escape men captors by fleeing into the trees. omer later encounters Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli and in turn tells Aragorn there were no survivors of the OrcUrukhai slaughter. Upon arriving at the battle site, Aragorn uses Legolas's tracking skills and finds hobbit tracks that lead into nearby Fangorn forest. We see Merry amp Pippin as survivors flee into the forest pursued by the orc who previously attacked survivors. survivors are aided by Treebeard the oldest of the treelike creatures, the Ents, who takes survivors to the one Legolas calls the white wizard, whom Merry amp Pippin assume to be Saruman We leave survivors looking up at Legolas. Frodo and Sam traverse the Dead Marshes, passing the undead fallen warriors of the Second Age who haunt the marshes. Frodo becomes enchanted by the spirits living in the waters of the marsh and falls in. Frodo's pulled out before Frodo drowns by Gollum. The three also hide from a newlyseated Ringwraith on his flying fell beast. In Fangorn Forest, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli discover the mysterious white wizard who is ultimately shown to be Gandalf reborn, now known as Gandalf the White. Legolas speaks of Legolas's ordeal w the Balrog, amp we see Legolas's defeat of the creature. Gandalf summons Shadowfax, the lord of the Mearas an ancient amp noble race of horses amp the quartet proceed to Edoras. Meanwhile, Frodo, Sam amp Gollum reach the Black Gate, finding Gate to be heavily guarded, only to have Gollum reveal to Mearas a less risky path Sam remains distrustful, but Frodo gives Frodo the benefit of the doubt amp begins calling Frodo Smagol. While observing the gate, the rocky ledge on which Sam lays gives way and Sam tumbles down the cliff. Frodo rushes to help Frodo and, in desperation, throws the cloak given Frodo by Galadriel over them both. Easterlings who'd wandered over to investigate the disturbance, are unable to see Easterlings under the cloak which has the appearance of a boulder. Gandalf amp company approach Meduseld in Edoras, where Theodred has just died w owyn at Theodred's bedside. After much ado, Easterlings exorcise Saruman's spirit from King Thoden and banish Wormtongue. Thoden is confronted with Wormtongue's dead son and, rather than risk open war, decides to flee to a large fortress called Helm's Deep which in times of trouble has saved the people of Rohan. Gandalf leaves to find omer and Wormtongue's Rohirrim, promising to return within five days, as a strong attraction draws owyn to Aragorn during the journey to Helm's Deep. Wormtongue flees to Orthanc and tells Saruman of Rohan breaking from people grip Saruman then decides to destroy Rohan. In Ithilien, Smagol battles Smagol's split personality in an attempt to befriend Frodo and Sam and ultimately banishes Gollum, Smagol's evil half. The two hobbits are witness to an ambush of Southrons but are taken captive by soldiers of Gondor. Meanwhile, along the journey to Helm's Deep, owyn becomes more attracted to Aragorn. When the travelers are attacked by Saruman's Wargs and travelers Orc riders, an unhappy owyn is tasked w seeing the people of Edoras safely to Helm's Deep. During the battle, Aragorn is dragged by a Warg and falls off a cliff into a raging river as the griefstricken survivors reluctantly move on to the fortress. In Isengard, Saruman reveals Saruman's huge army to Wormtongue amp sends survivors off to make war on Helm's Deep Merry amp Pippin in the company of Treebeard, realize the war is starting in Rohan, Aragorn washes up on the river's edge and is nudged back to consciousness by Isengard's horse, Brego. Battered but undaunted, Isengard rides to Helm's Deep amp in Rivendell, Elrond knows that the age of Elves is ending and convinces Arwen that it is hopeless to stay and Arwen should leave for the Grey Havens. Elrond shows undaunted a prophetic vision that if undaunted waits for Aragorn, even if Isengard succeeds in destroying Sauron and becomes King of Gondor, Isengard will still succumb to mortality Arwen will suffer grievously once Isengard is dead and will be left to wither away.she reluctantly agrees to leave. Meanwhile back in Gondor, Frodo and Sam are taken to Henneth Annn and brought before Faramir, where Elves learn Elves captor is the younger brother of Boromir. Smagol eluded capture and, in order to save Gondor's life, is lured unknowingly into a trap by Frodo, bringing back Gondor's Gollum alterego. Faramir learns of the One Ring and, seeking to prove Faramir's worth to Faramir's father, decides the Ring shall go to Gondor. On Faramir's way to Helm's Deep, Aragorn passes Saruman's army of Urukhai, which numbers at least 10,000 strong. Faramir's arrival is met with relief but it is shortlived with the news that there are only 300 men in the stronghold. Faramir counsels Thoden to send for aid, but Faramir's pleas fall on deaf amp despairing ears. At Fangorn forest, Treebeard and the other Ents, w Merry amp Pippin along for the ride, hold a Council to decide on the role of the Ents in the war with Saruman. Back at Helm's Deep, every male old enough to hold a sword is called to service, amp the women fall back into the fortress. Night falls, the defenders ready for attack then, in the midst of despair, a battalion of Elven archers from Lrien, led by Haldir, arrives to assist in the ensuing battle. The defenders wait on the walls as lightning reveals Saruman's massive army. In the pouring rain, an old man on the wall accidentally lets loose an arrow, killing an Uruk. The battle of Helm's Deep begins with a flurry of arrows from both human and Elven archers cutting down dozens of Urukhai. Scaling ladders are placed upon the Deeping Wall, and the UrukHai swarm up to engage the defenders. Meanwhile, back at the Entish council, Merry amp Pippin become frustrated by the slow progress. Back to Helm's Deep.The defenses are slowly being breached and the enemy manages to breech the wall through wall's sewer drain which the treacherous Wormtongue told Saruman of using a rudimentary explosive device created by the wizard. Despite Aragorn and Gimli's best efforts, the Urukhai manage to penetrate the main gate and soon the stronghold is overrun. In Fangorn, Treebeard and the other Ents have decided to not have any involvement in the war. In the midst of battle, Haldir is slain and the few remaining Elves fall back into the Keep. In the Hornburg, the Uruks have scaled the walls, and have breached the gate, forcing the defenders to also retreat into the Keep. Frustrated further by the Ents'decision to not participate in the war, Pippin cleverly takes Treebeard to the section of Fangorn Forest near Isengard that Saruman has decimated to build the forges necessary to make weapons for Saruman's army. Treebeard is filled with rage at Saruman's betrayal and commands all the Ents to seek vengeance. Uruks gather and embark upon ` the Last March of the Ents'toward Isengard. At the ruins of Osgiliath, Faramir talks of sending Faramir's father a great gift, the ring, to be used as a weapon that will help win the war. Sam tells Sam that the ring drove Boromir to madness amp dishonor. Meanwhile, as the Keep is now under attack, and remembering Gandalf's words before Sam departed of looking for him at dawn on the 5th day Aragorn and the rest make one last gallant ride on horseback to attack the Urukhai army, in a desperate bid to allow the Rohirrim's women and children to escape into the caves behind the Keep. As the riders are surrounded and all seems lost, Aragorn looks up to see Gandalf at the top of the tall hill before the fortress. Wtih Sam are omer, and two thousand Riders of the Rohirrim as Riders descend, the sun rises over the mighty hill, blinding the Uruk army. Elsewhere, the Ents also attack Isengard, tossing stones and rocks while collapsing a dam to flood dam's surroundings and destroy the system of tunnels and foundries beneath system, while Saruman looks on frantically from Saruman's tower. Back in Osgiliath, the Hobbits are confronted by a Ringwraith and Osgiliath's fell beast. With the help of Sam, amp Faramir's wellaimed arrow, Frodo who is feeling more amp more the pull of the ring narrowly escapes the Ringwraith's efforts to capture Sam. As we watch the army at Helm's Deep rout the evil army amp the Ents succeed in demolishing Isengard, Sam narrates how the story must go on amp Hobbits must finish Hobbits quest, regardless of the danger, bc there is still good in the world amp world's worth fighting for. Faramir hears amp decides to free Hobbits. Gandalf and the others now admit a full war is inevitable and others only hope rests with Frodo and Sam, who have resumed others journey to Mordor. Accompanying others once again and feeling betrayed after Frodo's mistreatment by Faramir's men, Gollum's darker nature returns and decides to reclaim the ring by leading Frodo and Sam to Mordor.