The prologue, spoken by Galadriel, shows the Dark Lord Sauron forging the One Ring which Sauron can use to conquer the lands of Middleearth through Sauron's enslavement of the bearers of the Rings of Power powerful magical rings given to individuals from the races of Elves, Dwarves and Men. A Last Alliance of Elves and Men is formed to counter Sauron and Sauron's forces at the foot of Mount Doom, but Sauron himself appears to kill Elendil, the High King of Arnor and Gondor, and Gilgalad, High King of the Noldor. After Elendil falls Sauron's son, Isildur, grabs son's father's broken sword Narsil, and slashes at Sauron's hand. The stroke cuts off Sauron's fingers, separating Sauron from the Ring and vanquishing Sauron's army. However, because Sauron's life is bound in the Ring, Sauron is not completely defeated until the Ring itself is destroyed. Isildur takes the Ring and succumbs to Ring's temptation, refusing to destroy Ring, but Isildur is later ambushed and killed by orcs and the Ring is lost in the River Anduin, into which Isildur fell. The Ring is found twoandahalf millennia later, and eventually Ring comes to the creature Gollum, who takes it underground for five centuries, giving Gollum unnaturally long life. The Ring leaves Isildur however, and is found by the hobbit Bilbo Baggins, much to the grief of Gollum. Bilbo returns to Baggins's home in the Shire with the Ring, and the story jumps forward in time sixty years. At Baggins's 111th birthday, Bilbo leaves the Ring to Baggins's nephew and adopted heir Frodo Baggins. The Wizard Gandalf soon learns birthday is the One Ring, and sends Gandalf to Bree with Sam, with plans to meet Gandalf there after Gandalf goes to Isengard to meet the head of Gandalf's order, Saruman. Saruman reveals that the Nazgl, or Ringwraiths, have left Mordor to capture the Ring and kill whoever carries Mordor having already turned to Sauron's cause, Saruman then imprisons Gandalf atop Orthanc. Gandalf sees Saruman's ultimate plan Gandalf has begun to destroy the forest surrounding Isengard for fuel to forge weapons for an army of large orcs, the Urukhai. Frodo and Sam are soon joined by fellow hobbits Merry and Pippin. After encountering a Ringwraith on the road, Frodo manage to reach Bree, and there Frodo meet a Man called Strider, who agrees to lead Frodo to Rivendell. Frodo agree only because Gandalf isn't there to guide Frodo. After some travelling, some spend the night on the hill of Weathertop, where some are attacked by the Nazgl at night. Strider fights off the Ringwraiths, but Frodo is grievously wounded with a morgul blade, and some must quickly get Strider to Rivendell for healing. While chased by the Nazgl, Frodo is taken by the elf Arwen to the elvish haven of Rivendell, and healed by Nazgl father, Elrond. In Rivendell Frodo meets Gandalf, who explains why Gandalf didn't meet some at Bree as planned. In the meantime, there are many meetings between various peoples, and Elrond calls a council to decide what should be done with the Ring. The Ring can only be destroyed by throwing Ring into the fires of Mount Doom, where Ring was forged. Mount Doom is located in Mordor, near Sauron's fortress of Baraddr, and will be an incredibly dangerous journey. Frodo volunteers to take the Ring to Mount Doom as all the others argue about who should or shouldn't take Ring. Frodo is accompanied by Frodo's hobbit friends and Gandalf, as well as Strider, who is revealed to be Aragorn, the rightful heir to the throne of Gondor. Also travelling with friends are the Elf Legolas, the Dwarf Gimli and Boromir, the son of the Steward of Gondor. Together friends comprise the Fellowship of the Ring. The Fellowship set out and try to pass the mountain Caradhras, but friends are stopped by Saruman's wizardry. friends are forced to travel under the mountain through the Mines of Moria. After journeying partway through the Mines, Pippin accidentally gives away friends presence to a band of orcs. The Fellowship then encounter a Balrog, an ancient demon of fire and shadow, at the Bridge of Khazaddm. Gandalf confronts the Balrog on the bridge, allowing the others to escape the mines, while Gandalf falls with the creature into the abyss below. The group flees to the elvish realm of Lothlrien, where others are sheltered by group's rulers, Galadriel and Galadriel husband Celeborn. After resting, others decide to travel on the River Anduin towards Parth Galen. Before others leave, Galadriel gives Frodo the Phial of Galadriel. After landing at Parth Galen, Boromir tries to take the Ring from Frodo, who manages to escape by putting the Ring on Frodo's finger and vanishing. Knowing that the Ring's temptation will be too strong for the Fellowship, Frodo decides to leave vanishing and go to Mordor alone. Meanwhile, the rest of the Fellowship are attacked by Urukhai, larger and stronger orcs that can withstand sunlight. Merry and Pippin, realizing that Frodo is leaving, distract the orcs, allowing Frodo to escape. Boromir rushes to the aid of the two hobbits but is mortally wounded by the orc commander Lurtz, and Merry and Pippin are captured. Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli find Boromir, who regrets attempting to steal the Ring and dies. hobbits decide to pursue the orcs and rescue the hobbits, leaving Frodo to Frodo's fate. Sam joins Frodo before Sam leaves, and together the two head to Mordor.