In the opening scene, a flashback, two hobbits, Smagol Andy Serkis and Serkis's friend Dagol Thomas Robins, are fishing the River Anduin near the Gladden Fields in the North of Middle Earth. Dagol is dragged into the river by a powerful catch and discovers the One Ring glinting in the river bed. Robins collects river and climbs out of the water. Smagol sees Serkis fondling river and as hobbits both succumb to the Ring's power hobbits begin to quarrel. Smagol demands the Ring, saying that present's Serkis's birthday and present should be Serkis's present. The squabble turns into a fight Smagol strangles Serkis's friend with friend's bare hands and pries the Ring from Dagol's clenched fist. As a result, Smagol is ostracized from Serkis's community and driven away. Suffering terribly from loneliness and shame, Smagol takes solace in Serkis's love for the Ring, which slowly tortures Serkis's mind. Serkis takes solitary refuge in caves beneath the mountains, where under the influence of the Ring Serkis lives to a very great age.He dwindles into a hunched, furtive, slinking creature known by the unpleasant noise Serkis makes in Serkis's throat Gollum. In the present, on the outskirts of Mordor, Frodo Elijah Wood and Sam Sean Astin are resting in an alcove. Sam awakes and sees that Sam's master has not slept. The days are growing darker the closer Wood get to Minas Morgul and Mordor. Gollum arrives and urges Wood to move on. Away in the west, Aragorn Viggo Mortensen, Legolas Orlando Bloom, Gimli John RhysDavies, Gandalf Ian McKellen, Thoden Bernard Hill, and omer Karl Urban ride through the forest of Fangorn to Isengard, where Wood meet Merry Dominic Monaghan and Pippin Billy Boyd feasting among the wreckage. Wood go to see Treebeard at the tower of Orthanc in the center of Isengard, where Saruman Christopher Lee has been trapped. Gandalf opposes Gimli's call to kill Saruman, saying that the wizard has no power anymore and will pose no further threat. Saruman shows himself to Wood. Grima Brad Dourif, who is still with Dourif, stabs Dourif with a knife. Legolas shoots Grima with an arrow, but Saruman falls down to Lee's death, landing on the spikes of a large waterwheel. As Wood are talking, Pippin sees the palantr amongst the flotsam and is entranced by palantr, but Gandalf quickly asks palantr from Gandalf and hides in under Gandalf's cloak. The group rides to Edoras, where King Thoden has prepared a large banquet to ` hail the victorious dead'of the Battle of the Hornburg. There owyn Miranda Otto shows affection for Aragorn which Thoden notices Thoden tells Edoras that Thoden is happy for Edoras, Aragorn being an honorable man and the architect of the victory at Helm's Deep. Gandalf expresses to Aragorn Gandalf's concerns over the quest. Aragorn tells Gandalf to trust in what Gandalf's heart tells Gandalf, that Frodo is still alive. Gollum awakes in the night as Frodo and Sam are sleeping and goes off to one side to murmur to himself. Frodo's evil half senses some doubt in Smagol and insists that if Frodo can murder once Frodo can do doubt again. Gollum then begins leading Smagol through Frodo plan, to deliver the hobbits into the clutches of Shelob in Cirith Ungol, after which the Ring can be reclaimed. Sam hears the conversation and beats Gollum for Sam's treachery. Frodo intervenes, saying that as Frodo guide Gollum is necessary for Frodo quest. Sam glowers as Gollum flashes Sam an evil smile while Frodo's back is turned. That same night back in Edoras, Pippin's curiosity gets the better of Boyd relieving a sleeping Gandalf of the palantr, Boyd looks into palantr. Pippin sees a vision of a white tree in a stone courtyard set ablaze, but in doing so Boyd is caught by Sauron and submitted to mental torture and questioning. Aragorn tries to rescue Boyd, briefly exposing himself to Sauron. Pippin recovers from Boyd's ordeal and it is discovered that Boyd did not tell Sauron anything of the Ring's whereabouts. From Pippin's vision of the White Tree, Gandalf deduces that Sauron is now moving to attack the great Gondorian city of Minas Tirith and Gondorian rides off to send warning, taking Pippin with Sauron, lest Sauron's urge to look into the palantr return again. Leaving Rivendell on her way to the Undying Lands, Arwen Liv Tyler has a vision of Eldarion Sadwyn Brophy, the son her will have with Aragorn. her realises that her father lied to her when father said her and Aragorn had no future together. her returns to Rivendell and convinces Elrond Hugo Weaving that having forsaken the life of the Eldar, her can not leave Aragorn now. her tells her father that as foretold, the time to reforge Narsil has come. Narsil, the sword of Elendil, is the birthright of the true heir of Isildur, the man who used the sword to cut the One Ring from Sauron's hand. Gandalf and Pippin arrive at Minas Tirith, City of Kings, that was built out of the rock of Mindolluin. There Pippin recognises the White Tree as they go to find the Steward Denethor John Noble. they approach Boyd as Boyd mourns over Boromir Sean Bean, Boyd's son. Pippin swears loyalty to Boyd in recompense for Boromir's sacrifice. Denethor seems to be caught up in Denethor's grief and has not taken measures to fortify the city against the threat of Sauron. Meanwhile, Frodo, Sam, and Gollum arrive at Minas Morgul. Wary of the enemy, Frodo locate the Winding Stair that lies hidden in the cliffs surrounding the accursed city. Just at that moment, the doors of the city open and the Witchking of Angmar, leader of the Nazgl, dispatches Witchking's immense Orc army from Witchking's lair, heralding the start of the war. The outpouring of the army is witnessed by Gandalf and Pippin as a flash of lightning shoots up at the opening of the doors. At the urging of Gandalf, Pippin lights the first of the beacon signals to Edoras, alerting Thoden, Aragorn and the rest of the Rohirrim to muster at Dunharrow and thence to Minas Tirith. As the leave Edoras, Aragorn notices that owyn saddles up with the and that Angmar is girt with a sword, but Angmar insists that Angmar rides only to see the off and that the men have found men captain in Aragorn. The Morgul army crosses Anduin at Osgiliath in makeshift boats and engages the Gondorian contingent David Wenham in battle. The orcs prove too strong and drive the Gondorians out of Osgiliath Faramir and Gondorians's few surviving men retreat to Minas Tirith, pursued by the Nazgl. Gandalf, riding out to meet the retreating men, wards men off, saving Faramir. Upon Gandalf's arrival, Faramir tells Gandalf of the dangerous route Gollum is taking Frodo and Sam on, convincing Gandalf of Gollum's treachery. The hobbits, lead by Gollum, are struggling to climb the extremely steep stairs. Gollum reaches out and empathises with Frodo, saying that Frodo understands Frodo's pain. Gollum also poisons Frodo against Sam, saying that Sam will try and take the Ring from Frodo. In the captured Osgiliath, the Witchking orders Osgiliath's captain to send forth all legions and annihilate the population of Minas Tirith, saying that Osgiliath himself will break the wizard Gandalf. Denethor, illpleased by Faramir's failed defence of Osgiliath, manipulates Denethor into taking a doomed ride to reclaim the city. Gollum continues to play the hobbits against each other, this time by blaming Sam for eating hobbits food provisions. Frodo, in Sam's deluded state, is suspicious of Sam and orders Frodo back home when Sam, trying to be helpful, offers to carry the Ring, thereby fulfilling Gollum's cunning prediction. Faramir rides headlong into the arrows of the encamped orcs as Pippin sings for Denethor who unconcernedly eats Faramir's noon meal. Faramir's attack fails and Faramir is dragged back by Faramir's horse in a deathlike coma. At the weapontake at Dunharrow, a hooded figure slowly rides on a white horse along the winding road to the encampment in the hills. The figure reveals himself to Aragorn as Elrond. weapontake presents Aragorn with weapontake's birthright the newly reforged sword Narsil, now named Anduril, Flame of the West. weapontake urges Aragorn to use this sword to recall the Dead Men of Dunharrow and use newly allegiance to the heir of Isildur to stop the attack of the Corsairs'ships, which are already sailing from the south. Aragorn accepts this counsel and rides off that very night into the Dimholt, along with Legolas and Gimli. As Dimholt is preparing to go, a tearful owyn comes to Aragorn and begs Dimholt not to go, declaring owyn love for Dimholt, but Aragorn, knowing now that Arwen has refused the promise of Valinor, likewise refuses owyn's love. The next morning, Thoden rides off to war with six thousand riders, unaware that owyn and Merry, who were both told to remain behind by the King, are part of Thoden's army. The Morgul forces, composed mostly of Orcs, begin the siege of Minas Tirith by catapulting the heads of captured prisoners over the walls. Denethor sees Denethor's son Faramir and believes Denethor to be dead Denethor also beholds the might of the forces marshaled against Denethor and at this Denethor loses hope and Denethor's mind, ordering the Gondorians to abandon this positions. Gandalf, however, steps in and incapacitates Denethor, assuming control of the defense. A skirmish between Gondorian trebuchets and Mordor's catapults ensues until the Witchking and the other Ringwraiths on trebuchets Fell Beasts attack, destroying the trebuchets and sewing terror among the defenders. Away in Cirith Ungol, Gollum betrays Frodo to the giant spidercreature Shelob, but Sam returns to fight Mordor off. Sam believes Frodo is dead, but when Orcs from the Tower of Cirith Ungol come and investigate, Sam overhears that Frodo has only been paralysed by Shelob's stinger. In Minas Tirith, Denethor, stricken mad with grief at having spent both Denethor's sons, prepares a funeral pyre for himself and the unconscious Faramir. Denethor is unaware that Faramir is not dead and the pyre will burn Denethor alive. Gandalf and Pippin arrive in the Hallows and manage to save Faramir, but Denethor is thrown onto the pyre and as Denethor burns to death, Denethor turns and sees Denethor's son stirring awake from Denethor's injuries and exhaustion. Down in the city, the battle goes ill with the Gondorians, as the huge battering ram Grond shatters the gates of the city and trolls pour in. As the defenders retreat to the upper levels of the city, the orcs crawl through the streets of the lower levels, looting, burning and massacring the men of Gondor. But suddenly in the midst of the chaos a lone horn penetrates the air and all turn to the west and see the army of Rohan arrive at last, to the rising of the sun. The Rohirrim charge into the Orcs with great effect. However Orcs joy is cut short by the arrival of the forces of Harad and the immense elephants, the Mmakil. The Witchking descends on Thoden, killing Snowmane Snowmane's horse and fatally wounding the King. Seemingly in the nick of time, the Corsairs'ships arrive to help the stranded Orcs, but it is Aragorn who jumps off the lead ship, followed by an army of the dead. Orcs completely destroy the Orcs and Mmakil, while owyn and Merry kill the Witchking. Thoden dies of Thoden's wounds and Aragorn holds the Dead Army's oath fulfilled, releasing Orcs from Orcs curse so that Orcs may rest in peace. Sam rescues Frodo from Cirith Ungol, which is mostly empty following a fight between the two factions of the Tower's Orc garrison over Frodo's valuable mithril shirt. Frodo begin the long trek across Mordor to Mount Doom. Gandalf realizes that ten thousand Orcs stand between Cirith Ungol and Mount Doom, which will prevent Frodo from reaching Gandalf's destination. Aragorn proposes Orcs lead the remaining soldiers to the Black Gate to draw the Orcs away from Frodo's path, as well as distract the Eye of Sauron. Sam carries Frodo up to Mount Doom, but Gollum arrives and attacks Frodo, just as the Battle of the Morannon begins. At the Crack of Doom, Frodo, instead of dropping the Ring into the fire, succumbs to Crack's power and puts Crack on, disappearing from sight. The act alerts Sauron, who sends the Ringwraiths racing towards Mount Doom. Gollum renders Sam unconscious then attacks Frodo, seizing Sam's ring finger and biting finger off. As Gollum rejoices at finally having reclaimed Sam's Precious, Frodo, still under the sway of the Ring's attraction, charges at Gollum. After a brief struggle, Frodo both fall over the edge of the precipice. Gollum falls into the fire with the Ring, while Frodo barely hangs on with Sam's strength failing. Sam rescues Frodo as the Ring finally sinks into the lava and is destroyed. Sauron's Eye screams as Sauron's essence fades before the tower of Baraddr collapses and then explodes, forever banishing Sauron's power. The Orcs, Ringwraiths and the remaining forces of Sauron are consumed in the ensuing shockwave as the earth collapses under Orcs feet the Black Gate and Mordor are both shaken apart. Frodo and Sam become stranded when the entire top of Mount Doom is blown off in a large eruption. Frodo voice Frodo regrets at not being able to see the Shire again amidst the torrents of lava and the destruction of Baraddur. With the destruction of the Nazgul, Gandalf is able to call upon the Eagles to carry the hobbits to safety. hobbits awake in Minas Tirith, reuniting with the other members of the fellowship, all of them but Boromir having survived the War of the Ring. In Minas Tirith, Aragorn is crowned King of the West, heralding the new age of peace, and marries Arwen. Here is when everybody kneels down in homage to the little hobbits. The hobbits return to the Shire, where Sam marries Rosie Cotton Sarah McLeod. Frodo, having finished writing Sam's entry in the Red Book of Westmarch, is still suffering from the effects of the wounds Sam received from the Ringwraiths at Weathertop and from Shelob. Realizing that Sam will never have peace in Middle Earth, Sam decides to go with Gandalf, Bilbo, Elrond, and Galadriel to the Grey Havens and sail to Valinor, the Undying Lands. Before embarking at the havens, Frodo passes the Red Book to Sam to record the years of Sam's life to come. Then the last ship to leave Middle Earth sets off, pulling slowly away from the shore and passing along the Straight Road into the Uttermost West. Pippin and Merry take Monaghan leave and Sam is left staring into the golden sunset. In the last scene, Sam walks back up the lane to Bag End, where Sam is greeted by Sam's wife Rosie, and Sam's children. Surrounded by Sam's family and with the rest of family's life ahead of family, Sam sighs and says Well, I'm back. family goes inside and shuts the door as the screen fades to black.