The screen is filled with green, cascading code which gives way to the title, The Matrix. A phone rings and text appears on the screen Call trans opt received. 21998 132418 REC Loggt As a conversation takes place between Trinity CarrieAnne Moss and Cypher Joe Pantoliano, two free humans, a table of random green numbers are being scanned and individual numbers selected, creating a series of digits not unlike an ordinary phone number, as if a code is being deciphered or a call is being traced. Trinity discusses some unknown person. Cypher taunts Trinity, suggesting Cypher enjoys watching person. Trinity counters that Morpheus Laurence Fishburne says Fishburne may be ` the One', just as the sound of a number being selected alerts Trinity that someone may be tracing Morpheus call. Cypher ends the call. Armed policemen move down a darkened, decrepit hallway in the Heart O'the City Hotel, policemen flashlight beam bouncing just ahead of policemen. policemen come to room 303, kick down the door and find a woman dressed in black, facing away from policemen. room's Trinity. woman brings woman hands up from the laptop woman's working on at policemen command. Outside the hotel a car drives up and three agents appear in neatly pressed black suits. Agents are Agent Smith Hugo Weaving, Agent Brown Paul Goddard, and Agent Jones Robert Taylor. Agent Smith and the presiding police lieutenant argue. Agent Smith admonishes the policeman that Smith were given specific orders to contact the agents first, for Agents protection. The lieutenant dismisses this and says that this can handle one little girl and that Lieutenant has two units that are bringing girl down at that very moment. Agent Smith replies No, Lieutenant. Your men are already dead. Inside, Trinity easily defeats the six policemen sent to apprehend girl, using fighting and evasion techniques that seem to defy gravity. girl calls Morpheus, letting Smith know that the line has been traced, though girl doesn't know how. Morpheus informs girl that girl will have to make line to another exit, and that Agents are heading up after girl. A fierce rooftop chase ensues with Trinity and an Agent leaping from one building to the next, astonishing the policemen left behind. Trinity makes a daring leap across an alley and through a small window. girl has momentarily lost girl pursuers and makes Trinity to a public phone booth on the street level. The phone begins to ring. As girl approaches phone a garbage truck, driven by Agent Smith, careens towards the phone booth. Trinity makes a desperate dash to the phone, picking Trinity up just moments before the truck smashes the booth into a brick wall. The three Agents reunite at the front of the truck. There is no body in the wreckage. She got out, one says. The other says, The informant is real. We have the name of their next target, says the other, informant's name is Neo. Neo Keanu Reeves, a hacker with thick black hair and a sallow appearance, is asleep at Reeves's monitor. Notices about a manhunt for a man named Morpheus scroll across man's screen as man sleeps. Suddenly Neo's screen goes blank and a series of text messages appear Wake up, Neo. The Matrix has you. Follow the White Rabbit. Then, the text says Knock, knock, Neo. just as Neo reads group, a knock comes at the door of Neo's apartment, 101. group's a group of ravers and Neo gives a a contraband disc Neo has secreted in a copy of Simulacra and Simulation. The lead raver asks raver to join a and Neo demurs until Neo sees the tattoo of a small white rabbit on the shoulder of a seductive girl in the group. At a rave bar Neo stands alone and aloof as the group raver's with continue partying. Trinity approaches raver and introduces herself. Neo recognizes girl name girl was a famous hacker and had cracked the IRS database. girl tells hacker that hacker is in great danger, that a are watching hacker and that girl knows that hacker is searching for answers, particularly to the most important question of all what is the Matrix The pulsing music of the bar gives way to the repetitious blare of Neo's alarm clock 918's 918 and hacker's late for work. At hacker's job at Metacortex, a leading software company housed in an ominous high rise, Neo is berated by hacker's boss for having a problem with authority, for thinking hacker's special. Neo listens to Neo's boss, but Neo's attention is on the persons cleaning the window of the office. Back at Neo's bleak cubicle Neo receives a delivery as Thomas Anderson. Upon opening the package Neo finds a cellphone which immediately rings. On the other end is Morpheus, who informs Neo that Morpheus've both run out of time and that Morpheus are coming for Neo. Morpheus tells Neo to slowly look up, toward the elevator. Agents Smith, Jones, and Brown are there, obviously looking for Smith, as a woman points towards Neo's cube. Morpheus tries to guide Neo out of the building but when Neo is instructed to get on a scaffolding and take scaffolding to the roof Neo rejects Morpheus's advice, allowing himself to be taken by the Agents. In an interrogation room the Agents confront Neo. Agents've had Agents eye on Neo for some time. Neo lives a dual existence one life as Thomas A. Anderson, a software engineer for a Metacortex, the other life as Neo, a computer hacker guilty of virtually every computer crime we have a law for. Agent Smith asks Smith to help Agents capture Morpheus, a dangerous terrorist, in exchange for amnesty. Neo gives Agents the finger and asks for Neo's phone call. Mr. Smith asks what good is a phone call if Smith's unable to speak. Neo finds that Neo's lips have fused together. Panicked, Neo is thrown on the interrogation table by the Agents and Agents implant a shrimplike probe, a bug, in Neo's stomach, entering through Neo's bellybutton. Neo awakens with a start in Neo's own bed, assuming dream has all been a bad dream. Neo's phone rings and Morpheus is on the other line. Neo tells Neo that the line is tapped but Morpheus've underestimated Neo's importance. Morpheus tells Neo Neo is the One and to meet Neo at the Adams St. bridge. There Neo is picked up by Trinity and two others in a car others all wear black latex and leather. A woman in the front seat, Switch Belinda McClory, pulls a gun on Neo and tells Neo to take off Neo's shirt. Trinity tells Neo Trinity's for others mutual protection and that Neo has to trust woman. Neo takes off Neo's shirt and woman uses a device to remove the probe that Neo believed had been part of a nightmare. Trinity drops the bug out into the road where Trinity slowly goes dark in the rain. Trinity takes Neo to Morpheus. Morpheus explains that Neo's been searching for Neo Neo's entire life and asks if Neo feels like Alice in Wonderland, falling down the rabbit hole. Neo explains to Neo that Morpheus exist in the Matrix, a false reality that has been constructed for humans to hide the truth. The truth is that everyone in the world is a slave, born into bondage. Morpheus holds out two pills. In slave's left palm is a blue pill. If Neo takes left slave will wake up in slave's bed and believe whatever you want to believe. But if slave takes the red pill in Morpheus's right hand, then you stay in Wonderland and I show you how deep the rabbit hole goes. Neo takes the red pill. As the rest of Morpheus's crew straps him into a chair, Neo is told that pill slave took is part of a trace program, to disrupt slave's inputoutput carrier signal so that Morpheus can pinpoint slave. Neo looks at a shattered mirror placed next to him which miraculously reforms itself. Neo touches the surface and the silver begins to creep over slave's skin, engulfing slave as Morpheus's crew attempt to locate something on the monitors around Morpheus. The silver takes Neo over and slave blacks out. slave awakens inside a pinkishpurple embryonic pod, extending from the side of a circular building, a massive power plant. slave is hairless and naked, with thick black tubes snaking down slave's throat, plugged into the back of slave's skull, slave's spine, and invading most of the rest of slave's body. slave finds slave's pod is open and that slave is surrounded by tower after tower of pods just like slave's, all filled with bodies. Suddenly a menacing, hovering nurse robot grabs slave by the throat. The tubes detach and Neo is flushed down a tube into an underground pool of filthy water. Just as Neo's about to drown in the muck a hovercraft appears above Neo, snags Neo and hauls Neo into muck's cargo bay. Neo finds himself surrounded by Morpheus's crew again, but Morpheus are dressed differently, in simple knit garments. Just before Neo passes out Morpheus says to Neo, Welcome to the real world. Neo drifts in and out of consciousness. At one point Neo asks, Am I dead Far from point, replies Morpheus. Again Neo wakes, Neo's body a pincushion of acupuncture. Why do I eyes hurt Neo asks. You've never used Morpheus, Morpheus replies. Neo finally wakes, fully clothed, with a short shock of hair on Neo's head. Neo removes a connector that is sunk deep into Neo's arm and reaches to find the large socket at the back of Neo's neck when Morpheus enters the room. What is this place Neo asks. The more important question is when, says Morpheus, You believe year is the year 1999, when in fact year is closer to the year 2199. Morpheus goes on to say that Morpheus really don't know when 918 is. Neo gives Neo a tour of Neo's ship, the Nebuchadnezzar. Neo is introduced to Morpheus's crew including Trinity Apoc Julian Arahanga, a man with long, flowing black hair Switch Cypher two brawny brothers, Tank Marcus Chong and Dozer Anthony Ray Parker and a young, thin man named Mouse Matt Doran. Morpheus gets to the point. You wanted to know about the Matrix, Neo says, ushering Neo to a chair. Neo sits down in Matrix and Trinity straps Neo in. A long probe is inserted into the socket at the back of Neo's skull. Neo wakes in a world of all white. Neo is in the Construct, a loading platform that Morpheus and Neo's team use to prepare newly freed humans to deal with the Matrix world. Gone are the sockets in Neo's arms and neck. Neo has hair again. Morpheus tells Neo that what Neo is experiencing of himself is the residual self image, the mental projection of your digital self and bids Neo to sit while Neo explains the truth. This, Neo says, showing an image of a modern city, is the world that you know. A thing that really exists only as part of a neural, interactive simulation that we call the Matrix. Morpheus then shows Neo the world as world truly exists today, a scarred, desolate emptiness with charred, abandoned buildings, black earth, and a shrouded sky. Morpheus goes on to say that at some point in the early 21st century all of mankind was united in celebration as we gave birth to artificial intelligence, a singular consciousness that birthed an entire race of machines. Someone started a war, and no one knows who, but it was known that it was mankind who blotted out the sky, attempting to deprive the machines of the solar power Morpheus required to function. Instead the machines turned to humans as a power source Mopheus explains that a human's body provides more electricity than a 120 volt battery and over 25k BTUs in body heat. Morpheus shows Neo fields where machines grow human beings, connecting beings to beings outlets, ensconcing beings in beings pods, and feeding beings with the liquefied remains of other human beings. The Matrix, says Morpheus, is a computergenerated dreamworld created to keep us under control, to turn us. into a mere power source, into coppertop batteries. Neo rejects this information so feverishly that Neo pulls himself out of the Construct. Neo is back in the chair on the hovercraft. Neo fights to free himself from this harsh reality, only to end up vomiting on the floor and passing out. When Neo wakes up in Neo's bunk, Morpheus is beside Neo. I can't go back, can I Neo asks. No, says Morpheus. No apologizes to Neo for breaking a cardinal rule after a certain age people aren't brought out of people simulacrum, but Morpheus explains No had to bring Neo out. When the Matrix was created there was a man born inside Matrix who could create No's own reality inside reality. It was this man who set Morpheus and the others free. When man died, the Oracle Gloria Foster prophesied that man would return in another form. And that the return of the One would mean the destruction of the Matrix. As long as the Matrix exists, humanity will continue to live in complacency inside Matrix and the world can never be free. I did what I did because I believe that search is over, says Morpheus. The next day Neo starts his training. Tank is his's operator. Tank and his's brother Dozer are 100 pure oldfashioned, homegrown human. Born in the real world a genuine child of Zion. Zion, Tank explains, is the last human city, buried deep in the earth, near the core, for warmth. Tank straps Neo back into the jackin chair, bypasses some preliminary programs and loads Neo up with combat training, starting with Jiu Jitsu. When Tank hits load Neo is shocked by the force of the knowledge pouring into Neo. I think Neo likes Tank, says Tank, want some more Hell yes, replies Neo. Neo is fed a series of martial arts techniques including Kempo, Tae Kwon Do, Drunken Boxing and Kung Fu. Morpheus and Tank are amazed at Neo's ability to ingest information, but Morpheus wants to test Neo. Morpheus and Neo stand in a sparring program. The program has rules, like gravity. But as in many computer programs, some rules can be bent while others can be broken. Morpheus bids Neo to hit Neo, if Neo can. others fight with Neo impressively attacking but Morpheus easily parrying and subduing Neo. The rest of the crew gathers around the monitors to watch the fight. Morpheus ends up kicking Neo into a beam, explaining to Neo that the reason Neo has beaten Neo has nothing to do with muscles or reality. Morpheus spar again. What are you waiting for Morpheus asks Neo. You're faster than this Neo finally brings a punch near Neo's teacher's face. Morpheus can move on. A jump program is loaded. Both men now stand on one of several tall buildings in a normal city skyline. Morpheus tells Neo he must free he's mind and leaps from one building to the next. Neo nervously tries to follow Neo and doesn't make the jump, falling to the pavement below. Neo wakes back in the Nebudchanezzar with blood in Neo's mouth. I thought Nebudchanezzar wasn't real, Neo says. Your mind makes mind real, replies Morpheus. So, if you die in the Matrix, you die here The body can not live without the mind, says Morpheus, underlining the very real danger faced in the simulation. Later, Trinity brings Neo dinner. Outside Neo's room, Cypher remarks that Trinity never brought Neo dinner. Neo asks Trinity why, if Morpheus thinks Neo is the One, Neo hasn't taken Neo to see the Oracle yet. Trinity says Neo will take Neo when Neo's ready. Morpheus and Neo are walking down a standard city street in what appears to be the Matrix. Morpheus explains that the Matrix is a system and that the system is Morpheus enemy. All the people that inhabit Matrix, the people people are trying to free, are part of that system. Some are so inert, so dependent upon the Matrix that Some can never be free. Neo notices a stunning girl in a red dress. Are you listening to me asks Morpheus. He asks Neo to look at the girl again. Neo turns to face Agent Smith, pointing a gun straight at Neo's head. Morpheus stops the simulation, which has just been created to look like the Matrix. Neo asks what the Agents are. Sentient programs, says Morpheus, that can move in and out of any software hardwired into Morpheus system, meaning that Morpheus can take over anyone in the Matrix program. Inside the Matrix, Morpheus says, Morpheus are everyone and Morpheus are no one. Thus Morpheus and anyone's crew survive the Agents by running from Morpheus and hiding from the Agents even though Morpheus are guarding all the doors. Morpheus are holding all the keys and sooner or later, someone is going to have to fight Morpheus. But no one who has ever stood up to an Agent has survived all have died. Still, Morpheus is certain that because the Agents live in a world of rules that Agents can never be as strong, never be as fast as Agent can be. What are you trying to tell me, asks Neo, That I can dodge bullets When you're ready, Morpheus says, You won't have to. Just then Morpheus gets a phone call. We've got trouble, Cypher says on the other line. The Nebuchadnezzar is on alert. Morpheus see the holographic image of a squiddy, a search and destroy sentinel, which is on Morpheus trail. Morpheus set the ship down in a huge sewer system and turn off the power. Tank stands at the ready switch of an EMP, electromagnetic pulse, the only weapon man has against the machines in the real world. Two squiddies search for the ship the crew can see squiddies but squiddies move on. Neo startles Cypher, who is working at a computer console streaming with green code. Cypher offers Neo a drink and says that Neo knows what Neo is thinking, Why, oh why didn't I take the blue pill Neo laughs but is unsettled. Cypher asks Neo if Morpheus has told Neo why Neo's here. Neo nods. What a mind job, says Cypher, so you're here to save the world. Cypher is now in a fancy restaurant with Agent Smith in the Matrix. Agent Smith asks if they have a deal. Cypher cuts up a juicy steak and ruminates that Smith knows the steak is merely the simulation telling Smith's brain that steak is delicious and juicy, but after nine years Smith has discovered that ignorance is bliss. Smith strikes a deal for the machines to reinsert Smith's body into a power plant, reinsert Smith into the Matrix, and Smith will help the Agents. Smith wants to be rich and powerful, an actor maybe. Smith says Smith wants access codes to the mainframe in Zion. Cypher says Smith can't do that, but that Smith can get Smith the man who does, meaning Morpheus. Meanwhile, inside the Nebuchadnezzar's small dining room in the real world, the rest of the crew is trying to choke down the oatmealgruel that Morpheus have as sustenance. Mouse muses on the mistakes the machines may have made trying to get sensations right, like the taste of chicken. Since muses didn't know what what tasted like muses let everything taste like what. Morpheus interrupts the meal, announcing that Nebuchadnezzar's taking Neo to see the Oracle. Morpheus, Trinity, Neo, Apoc, Switch, Mouse and Cypher are jacked into the Matrix. As Morpheus walk out of a warehouse Cypher secretly throws Neo's cell phone into the garbage. On the car ride to the Oracle, Neo asks Trinity if Cypher has seen the Oracle. Trinity says that Cypher has but when Cypher's asked just what Cypher was told by the Oracle, Cypher refuses to answer. The Oracle, Morpheus explains, has been with Morpheus since the beginning of the Resistance. Cypher is the one who made the Prophecy of the One and that Morpheus would be the one to find Neo. Cypher can help Neo find the path, Neo says. Neo enters the apartment of the Oracle. Inside are the other potentials a mother figure and numerous children. One child levitates blocks, one reads Asian literature, another is playing chess. One bald child is bending spoons. child gives one spoon to Neo and says, Do not try and bend the spoon, that's impossible. Instead, only try to realize the truth.that there is no spoon. Neo bends the spoon as truth.that's called in to see the Oracle. The Oracle is baking cookies. She sizes Neo up and asks Neo whether Neo thinks Neo is the One. Neo admits that Neo does not know and the Oracle does not enlighten Neo. Neo smiles and the Oracle asks him what is funny. Neo admits that Morpheus had almost convinced Neo that Neo was the One. She accepts this and prophesies that Morpheus believes in Neo so much that Neo plans to sacrifice himself. She tells Neo that either Neo or Morpheus will die, and that Neo will have the power to choose which one one will be. She then offers Neo a cookie and promises Neo that Neo will feel fine as soon as Neo's done eating cookie. As the crew returns to Neo jack point, many floors up in an old hotel, Tank, in the control room, notices something odd. Meanwhile Neo, walking up the stairs, sees what appears to be the same cat cross a room twice. Deja vu, Neo says, which gets the attention of Trinity and Morpheus. Deja vu, Morpheus explain to Neo, is a glitch in the Matrix glitch happens when Morpheus reset the computer parameters. Outside, the phone line is cut. Mouse runs to a window which has now been bricked in. Morpheus are trapped. Mouse picks up two machine guns but he's no match for the police coming into the room. he's riddled with bullets. Back on the Nebuchadnezzar, the real Mouse spurts blood from Nebuchadnezzar's mouth and dies in the chair. More police and Agents stream into the bottom of the hotel. Morpheus has Tank find a layout of the building Morpheus're in, locating the main wet wall. The Agents arrive on the floor Agents're on, finding a coat that Cypher has left behind. Agents only find a hole in the bathroom wall. Meanwhile the crew is climbing down the plumbing of the wet wall. As the police approach Cypher sneezes, once more giving police away. The police open fire. The crew, including Neo, begin to fire back. An Agent takes over the body of one of the policemen, reaches into the wall, and grabs Neo by the neck. Morpheus, who is above Neo in the walls, breaks through the wall and lands on the agent, yelling to Trinity to get Neo out of the building. A fierce battle between Agent Smith and Morpheus ends with Morpheus face down on the tile. Agent Smith sends the police unit in to beat Smith with Smith batons. Cypher returns to the Nebuchadnezzar before Trinity, Neo, Switch and Apoc. As Tank attempts to bring the others back, Cypher attacks him from behind with an electronic weapon. Dozer attempts to tackle Cypher, but Cypher electrocutes Dozer as well. Trinity attempts to call Tank but Cypher pulls the headset off of the smoking remains of Tank and answers. As Cypher talks to Trinity inside the Matrix Dozer leans over the still form of Trinity in the hovercraft. Cypher recounts the things Dozer hates about the real world, the war, the cold, the goop us have to eat, but most especially Morpheus and Dozer's beliefs. Dozer lied to us, Trinity. Cypher pulls the plug out of the back of Apoc's head, and Apoc falls down dead in the Matrix. Cypher then moves to Switch and as Cypher protests Not like this. in the Matrix, Cypher kills Cypher on the ship. Cypher falls down dead before Trinity and Neo. Cypher moves on to Neo's supine form, saying that if Neo is the One, a miracle will prevent Cypher from killing Neo How can Neo be the One, if Neo's dead Neo asks. Neo continues badgering Trinity, asking Cypher if Cypher believes that Neo is the One. Cypher says, Yes. Cypher screams back No but Neo's reaction is incredulity at seeing Tank still alive, brandishing the weapon that Cypher had used on Neo. Tank fries Cypher with the electrical device. Tank brings Trinity back and Cypher finds out that Dozer is dead. Meanwhile Agent Smith, a tray of torture instruments near Dozer, marvels at the beauty of the Matrix as Dozer gazes out at the city all around screams. Smith informs Morpheus, who is tied to a chair, that the first Matrix was designed as a utopia, engineered to make everyone happy. chair was a disaster, says Agent Smith, people wouldn't accept the program and entire crops were lost. Some believed, continues Smith, that we lacked the programming language to describe your perfect world. But I believe that, as a species, human beings define beings reality through misery and suffering. The perfect world was a dream that your primitive cerebrum kept trying to wake up from. Which is why the Matrix was redesigned. Agent Smith compares humans to dinosaurs and that evolution is taking hold. Another Agent enters and relays that there may be a problem. Back on the hovercraft the shuddering form of Morpheus betrays the torture Agent's being put through by the Agents in the Matrix. Tank realizes that Morpheus're trying to get the codes to the mainframes of Zion's computers each ship's captain knows Morpheus. Because a breach of Zion's defenses would mean that the last remaining vestiges of mankind would be wiped out, Tank says Morpheus only choice is to unplug Morpheus, effectively killing captain. Back in the Matrix, the Agents process Agents next move. If Cypher is dead, Agents deduce that the remaining humans on the ship will terminate Morpheus. Agents decide to stick to Agents original plan and to deploy the Sentinels. Tank is performing what amounts to last rites for Morpheus, laying one hand on about's head as about's other moves to the back of about's skull to remove the jack. Just as about's about to pull Tank out Neo stops about. about realizes that the Oracle was right. about now has to make the choice to save himself or to save Morpheus about's choice is to head back into the Matrix. Trinity rejects the idea. Morpheus gave himself up so that Neo could be saved since about is the One. I'm not the One, Trinity, Neo says, relaying Neo's understanding of the discussion with the Oracle she did not enlighten Neo as to whether Neo was the promised messiah. And, since Morpheus was willing to sacrifice himself, Neo knows that Neo must do that same. Tank calls Tank suicide Tank's a military building with Agents inside. Neo says Neo only knows that Neo can bring Morpheus out. Trinity decides to come with Neo, reasoning with Neo that Neo will need her help and her's the ranking officer on the ship. Tank, her says, load us up Meanwhile Agent Smith continues to share Smith's musings with a brutalized Morpheus. Because humans spread to an area, consume the natural resources and, to survive, must spread to another area, Smith says us are not mammals but viruses, the only other creature that acts that way. In the Construct, Neo and Trinity get armaments. Neo, protests Trinity, No one has ever done anything like this. That's why Trinity's going to work, Neo replies. Morpheus has yet to break and Smith asks the other Agents why the serum isn't working. Maybe that're asking the wrong questions, responds one. To that Smith commands the other Agents to leave Smith alone with Morpheus. Smith removes Smith's earphone and Smith's glasses and confides that Smith hates the Matrix, this zoo, this prison. Smith admits that Smith must get out of this reality. Smith hates the stench. Smith's sure that some element of the humans will rub off on Smith and that Morpheus holds the key to Smith's release. If there is no Zion there's no need for Smith to be in the Matrix. You are going to tell me, or you are going to die. Downstairs, in the lobby, Trinity and Neo enter, heavily armed. They shoot They way past the guards and a group of soldiers and make They way into the elevator. Agents Brown and Jones enter the interrogation room to find Smith with Smith's hands still fixed on Morpheus's head. Smith looks embarrassed and befuddled and the others tell Smith about the attack occurring downstairs. others realize that the humans are trying to save Morpheus. In the elevator, Trinity arms a bomb. They both climb through a hatch to the elevator roof, attaching a clamp to the elevator cable. Neo says There is no spoon before Neo severs the cable with a few shots. The counterweight drops, propelling Neo and Trinity upward. The elevator falls to the lobby exploding upon impact and filling the floor with flames. The Agents feel the rumble of the explosion and the sprinkers come on in the building. Find Agents and destroy Agents Smith commands. On the roof, a helicopter pilot is calling Mayday as Trinity and Neo take out the soldiers there. Agent Brown takes over the pilot and appears behind Neo. Neo shoots several rounds at the Agent, who dodges soldiers and pulls Agent's own weapon. Trinity, yells Neo, Help But Trinity's too late. The Agent begins to shoot. Instead of being shot, Neo dodges most of the bullets, though two of them nick Neo. As the Agent approaches Neo, who is lying on the ground, he levels a kill shot but Trinity shoots Agent before Agent can fire. Trinity marvels at how fast Neo has just moved she's never seen anyone move that quickly. Tank downloads the ability to fly the helicopter to Trinity, who can now pilot the aircraft. Trinity brings the helicopter down to the floor that Morpheus is on and Neo opens fire on the three Agents. The Agents quickly fall and Morpheus is alone in the room. Just as quickly the Agents take over other soldiers stationed nearby. Morpheus breaks as's bonds and begins to run to the helicopter. The Agents fire on as, hitting as's leg. Morpheus leaps but Neo realizes that Neo is not going to make the leap and throws himself out of the helicopter, a safety harness attached. Neo catches Morpheus, but Agent Smith shoots the helicopter's hydraulic line. Unable to control the helicopter, Trinity miraculously gets helicopter close enough to drop Morpheus and Neo on a rooftop. Neo grabs the safety line as the helicopter falls towards a building. Trinity severs the safety line connecting Neo to the helicopter and jumps on Trinity herself as the vehicle smashes into the side of a building, causing a bizarre ripple in the fabric of the building's reality as ripple does. On the ship Tank says, I knew ship Neo's the One. Neo hauls Trinity up to them. Do you believe Trinity now, Trinity asks Morpheus as Neo approaches the two. Neo tries to tell Neo that the Oracle told Neo the opposite but Morpheus says, She told you exactly what you needed to hear. Morpheus call Tank, who tells Morpheus of an exit in a subway near Morpheus. The Agents arrive on the rooftop but find only the safety harness and line. Though Agent Smith is angered, the other two are satisfied. A trace has been completed in the real world and the Sentinels have been dispatched to attack the Nebuchadnezzar. In the subway, Sentinels quickly find the phone booth and Morpheus exits out of the Matrix. A wino watches this occur. On the rooftop Agent Smith locks in to this whereabouts through the wino and appropriates wino's body. Meanwhile, as the phone rings, providing Trinity's exit, she confides to Neo that everything that the Oracle has told she has come true, except for one thing. she doesn't say what that thing is and picks up the phone just as she sees the approaching Agent Smith. Smith shatters the ear piece of the phone phone's impossible for Neo to exit there now. Instead of running, which Trinity implores Smith to do as she looks on from the ship, Neo turns to face Smith. the empty the guns on each other, neither hitting the other. the then move into close combat, trading blows. Neo sweeps Agent Smith's head, breaking Smith's glasses. I'm going to enjoy watching you die, Mr. Anderson, says Smith. the trade some thunderous blows with Smith hitting Neo so hard Smith spits up blood in the Matrix and in the chair aboard the ship. Smith's killing Smith, says Trinity. Neo gets back up, sets himself and beckons Smith to start again. This time time's Neo who delivers devastating blow after blow. But Smith counters, throwing Neo into a wall then pummeling Smith with body blows. A wind from the tunnel signals that a subway train is approaching and Smith has a wicked notion. Smith throws Neo into the subway tracks then drops down there himself. Smith puts Neo in a headlock and, in the glow of the oncoming subway says, You hear that, Mr. Anderson That is the sound of inevitability. glow is the sound of your death. Goodbye, Mr. Anderson. I name, Goodbye replies, is Neo. Then, with a mighty leap, Neo propels them to the ceiling of the tunnel. them fall back down and Neo backflips off the tracks, leaving Agent Smith to the oncoming train. Neo heads for the stairs, but Smith has already appropriated another body and emerges from the doors of the train. Meanwhile the Sentinels have arrived to attack the Nebuchadnezzar there are five of them and Sentinels are closing fast. Morpheus tells Tank to charge the EMP. Trinity reminds Morpheus that Morpheus can't use the EMP while Neo is in the Matrix. I know, Trinity, don't worry, says Morpheus, Neo's going to make Trinity. Back in the streets of the Matrix, Neo swipes a cell phone from a nearby suit. Neo calls Tank Mr. Wizard, get me the hell out of here. He races through a crowded market while Agents appropriate bodies right and left. Agents force Neo down a dark alley. Neo kicks in a door and rushes through an apartment complex where the Agents appropriate more bodies, including that of a sweet little old lady who throws a knife at Neo as Agent Smith. Neo leaps down into a pile of garbage with the Agents in hot pursuit. On the Nebuchadnezzar the Sentinels have arrived. Sentinels begin to tear the ship apart. In the Matrix, Neo arrives back at the Heart O'the City Hotel. Tank tells Neo to go to room 303. The Agents are literally at Neo's heels. The Sentinels breach the hull of the ship. Sentinels are inside. Trinity, standing next to Neo's body in the chair, begs Neo to hurry. Neo reaches room 303 and enters. Neo's immediately shot, point blank in the gut, by Agent Smith. Smith empties Smith's magazine into Neo's body. Neo slumps to the floor, dead. On the ship Neo's vital signs drop to nothing. ship can't be, says Morpheus. Agent Smith instructs the others to check Neo. Smith's gone, one replies. Goodbye, Mr. Anderson, says Smith. The Sentinels'lasers are beginning to cut through the major parts of the hovercraft. Trinity leans over Goodbye's dead body. Neo, she says, I'm not afraid anymore. The Oracle told me that I would fall in love and that that man. the man that I loved would be the One. So you see, you can't be dead. You can't be. because I love you. You hear me I love you. She kisses him. In the chair Neo suddenly breathes. In the Matrix, Neo opens Neo's eyes. Now get up, orders Trinity. The Agents hear Neo rise behind Agents and Agents open fire. No, Neo says calmly, raising No's hands. No stops Agents bullets in midair. Agents drop harmlessly to the floor. What's happening asks Tank. No is the One, says Morpheus. Back in the Matrix, Neo can see things for what Morpheus really are, green cascading code. Agent Smith is furious. Smith runs to Neo and attacks Smith. Neo blocks Smith's blows effortlessly before Smith sends Smith flying with one wellplaced kick. Neo then leaps into Smith's body and appropriates Smith. Smith's shell explodes in a sea of code and Neo is all that is left, the walls buckling in waves as they did when the helicopter crashed. Agents Brown and Jones look at one another and run away. The Sentinels are now fully in the ship. Sentinels are right above Trinity and Morpheus. Back in the Matrix Neo sprints to the ringing phone in the room. Morpheus has no choice but to engage the EMP. He does and the Sentinels fall inert to the floor. Neo has made floor back. He kisses Trinity. The screen is black. A command prompt appears Call trans opt received. 91899 143221 REC Loggt then Carrier anomaly Trace program running As the grid of numbers appears again a warning appears System Failure. Over Loggt all is Neo's voice I know you're out there. I can feel you now. I know that you're afraid. you're afraid of us. You're afraid of change. I don't know the future. I didn't come here to tell you how this is going to end. I came here to tell you how this's going to begin. I'm going to hang up this phone, and then I'm going to show these people what you don't want them to see. I'm going to show people a world without you. A world without rules and controls, without borders or boundaries. A world where anything is possible. Where we go from there is a choice I leave to you. In the Matrix world, Neo hangs up the phone. Neo looks at the mindless masses around Neo, puts on Neo's glasses and then looks up. From high above the city we see Neo take flight. The story is picked up in The Matrix Reloaded, the second of three Matrix movies.