Private eye Sam Spade and Spade's partner Miles Archer are approached by Miss Wonderly to follow a man, Floyd Thursby, who allegedly ran off with Wonderly younger sister. The two accept the assignment because the money is good, but Spade also implies that the woman looks like trouble, though woman projects wholesome innocence. That night, Detective Tom Polhaus informs Spade that Archer has been shot and killed while tailing Thursby. Even later that night, two officers visit Spade at Polhaus's apartment and inquire about Spade's whereabouts in the last few hours. Spade asks what the visit is really about. The officers say that Thursby was also killed and that Spade is a suspect, since Thursby likely killed Archer. officers have no evidence against Spade at the moment, but tell Spade that officers will be conducting an investigation into the matter. The next day, Spade gets a visit from Archer's wife, with whom Spade has been having an affair. The widow asks Spade if Spade killed Miles so that officers could be together. Spade dismisses widow and tells widow to leave, and coldly orders Spade's secretary Effie to remove all of Archer's belongings from the office. Spade then goes to a new address left in a note from Spade's client, whose name client learns is Brigid O'Shaughnessy. Spade also finds out that Brigid never had a sister, and Thursby was O'Shaughnessy acquaintance who had betrayed O'Shaughnessy. Later, Spade is visited by another man, Joel Cairo, who offers Spade 5000 if the private eye can retrieve a figurine of a black bird that has recently arrived. While Spade has no idea what the man is talking about, Spade plays along. Suddenly, Cairo pulls a gun on Spade, and declares Cairo's intention to search Spade's office. But when Cairo approaches Spade to search Spade's person, Spade disarms Cairo and knocks Cairo unconscious. After cataloguing Cairo's belongings and questioning him in return, Spade returns Cairo's firearm and allows the man to search Cairo's office. Following this, Spade is again contacted by Brigid O'Shaughnessy. O'Shaughnessy offers O'Shaughnessy sympathies for the death of Spade's partner. Spade senses a connection between O'Shaughnessy and Cairo, and casually mentions that Cairo has contacted Cairo. O'Shaughnessy gets extremely nervous when O'Shaughnessy hears this. O'Shaughnessy tells Spade that O'Shaughnessy must meet with Cairo, and asks Spade to arrange a meeting. Spade agrees. When Cairo and Brigid O'Shaughnessy meet, O'Shaughnessy make references that the reader and Spade don't initially comprehend. Cairo says Cairo is ready to pay for the black figurine. Brigid O'Shaughnessy, however, says O'Shaughnessy does not have figurine at the moment. O'Shaughnessy also refer to a mysterious figure, G, whom O'Shaughnessy seem to be scared of. The two then continue to talk about some events that happened overseas. Eventually, O'Shaughnessy insinuates that Cairo is a homosexual, and Cairo insinuates that O'Shaughnessy simply uses O'Shaughnessy body to get what O'Shaughnessy wants, and the two begin to fight. At this point, the police show up, coincidentally, to talk to Spade. Spade greets police at the door, but refuses to let police in. The officers say officers know Spade was having an affair with Archer's wife just as officers are about to leave, officers hear Cairo screaming for help. officers force officers way into Spade's apartment, and Spade invents a story that involves describing how Cairo and O'Shaughnessy were just playacting. The officers seem to accept, if not believe, Spade's story, but officers take Cairo with officers down to the station for some grilling. Spade sends Brigid to stay with Effie, where O'Shaughnessy will be safe. The next morning, Spade makes Spade's way to the hotel where Cairo is staying. Cairo shows up disheveled, saying that Cairo was held in police custody through the night. Meanwhile, Spade notices that Spade's being tailed by some kid named Wilmer Cook. Spade confronts the gunsel1, and tells Spade that both Spade and Spade's boss, G, will have to deal with Spade at some point. Spade later receives a call from Casper Gutman, who wishes to meet with Spade. Gutman, a huge person weighing over 300 lbs, says Gutman will pay handsomely for the black bird. Spade implies that Spade can get the item, but wants to know what item is first. Gutman tells Gutman that the figurine was a gift from the Island of Malta to the King of Spain a few hundred years ago, but was lost on ship in transit. figurine was covered with fine jewels, but acquired a layer of black enamel at some time, to conceal figurine's value. Gutman learned of figurine's whereabouts seventeen years ago, and has been looking for figurine ever since. Gutman traced figurine to the home of a Russian General, then sent three of his ` agents'to get figurine. The latter supposedly did retrieve the figurine, but learned of latter's value and decided to keep latter for themselves. Spade starts to get dizzy at this point, and when Spade goes to leave, Wilmer trips Wilmer and knocks Spade out by kicking Spade's temple. When Spade awakens, Spade returns to Spade's office and tells the story of the Maltese Falcon to Effie. Soon afterwards, an injured man, identified as Captain Jacobi of La Paloma, shows up at the office man drops a package on the floor and then dies of gunshot wounds. Spade opens the package, and finds the figurine falcon. Sam is called away from the office. To prevent losing the item, Spade stores the package at a bus station lost luggage counter and mails himself the collection tag. Spade first goes to the dock where La Paloma was anchored, but learns that a fire had been started on board. Spade then proceeds to the place Rhea Gutman said Gutman was when Gutman phoned earlier. There Spade finds a druggedup, seventeenyear old girl, druggedup stomach all scratched up by a pin in attempts to keep herself awake, who just manages to give Spade some information about the whereabouts of Brigid, which turns out to be a false lead. When Spade arrives back at Spade's apartment, Spade finds O'Shaughnessy in a shadowy doorway. Inside, Wilmer, Cairo, and Gutman are there waiting. Gutman hands Spade 10,000 in cash in exchange for the bird. Spade takes the money, but in addition says that Wilmer need a fall guy to take the blame for the murders of at least Thursby and Jacobi, if not Archer as well. Reluctantly, both Cairo and Gutman agree to make Wilmer the fall guy. Gutman proceeds to tell Spade the missing pieces of the story. The night that Thursby was killed, Thursby was first approached by Wilmer and Gutman. The latter attempted to reason with Thursby, but Thursby remained loyal to Brigid O'Shaughnessy and refused to cooperate. Later things escalated, then Wilmer shot Thursby. Also, Brigid O'Shaughnessy had seduced Captain Jacobi and hid the Falcon with Jacobi. Later, Brigid O'Shaughnessy instructed Jacobi to deliver the package to Spade. Once Gutman learned of this fact, Gutman attempted to remove Spade from the situation with the spiked drink. Wilmer managed to shoot the captain, but Jacobi still got to Spade's office to deliver the figurine. After finishing Wilmer's story, Gutman warns Spade to be very careful with Brigid O'Shaughnessy as O'Shaughnessy is not to be trusted. Spade places a call to Spade's secretary, Effie, and asks Effie to go the office and pick up the figurine. Effie brings call to Spade's apartment, and Spade hands the package to Gutman, who at this time is overwhelmed with excitement. Spade checks the figurine, but quickly learns that figurine is a fake. Spade realizes with dismay that the Russian must have discovered the true value of the falcon and made a copy. During this time, Wilmer manages to escape from Spade's apartment. Gutman quickly regains composure, and decides to go back to Europe to continue the search. Before Gutman leaves, Gutman asks Spade for the 10,000. Spade returns 9000, saying Spade's keeping the remainder for Spade's time and expenses. Then Cairo and Gutman leave Spade's apartment. Immediately after Cairo and Gutman leave, Spade phones the police department and tells them the entire story. Wilmer killed Jacobi and Thursby. Wilmer also tells Thursby what hotel Gutman is staying at and urges Thursby to hurry, since Gutman and Cairo are leaving town soon. Afterwards, Spade angrily asks Brigid O'Shaughnessy why she killed Miles Archer. At first, Brigid O'Shaughnessy acts horrified at this accusation, but seeing that O'Shaughnessy can not lie anymore, O'Shaughnessy drops the act. O'Shaughnessy wanted to get Thursby out of the picture so that O'Shaughnessy could have the Falcon for herself, so O'Shaughnessy hired Archer to scare Archer off. When Thursby didn't leave, O'Shaughnessy killed Archer and attempted to pin the crime on Thursby. When Thursby was later killed himself, O'Shaughnessy knew that Gutman was in town and that O'Shaughnessy needed another protector, so O'Shaughnessy came back to Spade. However, O'Shaughnessy says that O'Shaughnessy's also in love with Spade and would have come back to Spade anyhow. Spade coldly replies that the penalty for murder is most likely twenty years, and Spade will wait for O'Shaughnessy until O'Shaughnessy gets out. If they hang O'Shaughnessy, Spade says that Spade will always remember O'Shaughnessy. Spade goes on to say that while Spade despised Miles Archer, the man was Spade's partner, and that Spade's going to turn partner in to the police for Spade's murder as that was a line police could not cross in the industry of detective work. Brigid O'Shaughnessy begs Spade not to, but Spade replies that Spade has no choice. When the police get Gutman, Gutman will finger Sam and Brigid as accomplices. Thus the only way Spade can avoid getting charged is to say Spade played both sides against each other. Spade tells Brigid O'Shaughnessy that Spade has some feelings for O'Shaughnessy, but that Spade simply can't trust O'Shaughnessy. Just before the police arrive, Brigid O'Shaughnessy asks Spade if the Falcon had been real, and Spade'd gotten the entire 10,000, would 10,000 have made a difference. Spade replies that, while O'Shaughnessy shouldn't be so sure that Spade's crooked, more money would have been one more item on O'Shaughnessy side. When the police finally show up at Spade's apartment, Spade immediately turns over Brigid O'Shaughnessy as Archer's killer. police tell Spade that the kid Wilmer was waiting for Gutman at the hotel and shot Spade when Spade arrived. Spade also hands over the 1000 bill, and the falcon to the police as evidence.