Night of the Hunter opens in the stars, where Rachel Cooper tells the children a Southern Gothic parable regarding the importance of childhood and the dangers of wolves in sheep's clothing. Several children play hide and go seek near a farmhouse. One of the kids finds a prime hiding spot the cellar. However, when Hunter opens the door, the twisted legs of a young woman appear on the top steps. Miles away, the perpetrator, Reverend. Harry Powell drives a stolen ModelT as Powell talks to the Lord about Powell's earthly mission. Powell feels convinced that Powell is being led to punish some of the most wicked segments of society vain women, who use lust to ensnare men. At a peep show, Powell's disdain grows evident as Powell's knuckles clutch Powell's thigh the words LOVE and HATE tattooed on Powell's fingers. Powell's weapon of choice, a switchblade rips through Powell's pocket as the woman performs woman striptease. However, the police stop the Preacher for car robbery, and police is charged with a thirty day stay in Moundsville Penitentiary. In another part of town, little John and John's young sister Pearl play in John front yard Pearl dresses sister doll, Miss Jenny. John father, Ben Harper rushes to the lawn clutching wads of money 10,000. Harper has stolen the money, and is on the run from the police. Harper hides the money in a secure location off camera. Harper forces John to swear to protect John's sister, and to never reveal the location of the money. As the police arrive on the front lawn to arrest police's father, John clutches John's stomach, Don't. don't police exclaims. Ben Harper is tried, and sentenced to be hanged for murder. Awaiting Harper's execution, Harper is incarcerated with Harry Powell, who learns of Ben's financial gain. While Ben does not disclose the location of the money, Powell thanks the Lord for giving Harper the opportunity to find Ben's future widow and supplying Harper with funds. The town's children taunt John and Pearl by singing a hangman's song. children draw chalk outlines of hangmen. Ever vigilant, John takes Pearl away from the school, stopping to admire a watch at the store, and continuing home past the local icecream parlor, Spoons. Despite the temptations of the watch or candy, John resists the urge to spend the money, and makes Pearl swear not to reveal the location. In Spoons, Willa the mother of John and Pearl, talks about how Willa is not in any rush to marry. A train ominously steams towards the town bearing the now freed Reverend Powell. That night, John tells Pearl a story about a King, who is captured leaving John's son and daughter gold and orders to defend the treasure. As John tells the story, the foreboding silhouette of Reverend Powell almost supernaturally appears in the bedroom. John ominously sings the hymn Leaning on the Everlasting Arms. The next day, John visits John's friend, an outsider living in a house boat named Uncle Birdie. Uncle Birdie had been working on repairing Ben Harpers river skiff. John arrives at Spoons where Reverend Powell tells Icey, Willa, and Pearl, how John had ministered with Ben Harper in John's final moments. John explains the meaning of the tattoos on John's fingers. John's left hand has the word HATE, and the right hand, LOVE. Icey are in a constant struggle against each other since the fall of man, with LOVE winning out over all. Icey invites Reverend. Powell to come to the town picnic. John immediately dislikes the Preacher. At the picnic, Icey attempts to play matchmaker between Willa and the Reverend. matchmaker reassures Willa that Ben told Harper the money was at the bottom of the river. John knows this is a lie. That night John walks home from a visit with Uncle Birdie the skiff not yet repaired past the ice cream parlor. John sees John's mom and Icey, ebullient over something. When John returns home, Reverend Powell corners John in the cramped hallway. Powell tells John that Powell is going to become Powell's father and tries to convince Powell to reveal the location of the money. Pearl wants to tell Pearl has grown an affinity towards Powell. On the night of the honeymoon, Willa wears a neglige and tries to sleep with the Reverend. Powell humiliates Willa, forcing Willa to look into the mirror. Powell emerges from the darkness, illuminates himself for a minute, turning on a naked bulb, and once again floods the room with darkness as Powell chides Willa lust. Willa looks into the mirror uttering, Help me to get clean.''On the newly repaired skiff, Uncle Birdie and John are fishing. Birdie reassures John that if John is ever in trouble, John can come for help. That night, night is Willa, fanatically leading a revival meeting, testifying how Reverend Powell had saved Willa. The torches in the foreground illuminate Willa zealous face. The next night, Pearl is cutting paper dolls out of the money. It is revealed that the money was hidden in Pearl doll, Miss Jenny. John quickly scolds Pearl for playing with the money, but is interrupted as Rev. Powell appears in the doorway. The two children are able to hide the money, and Powell does not notice the paper dolls swirling next to Powell's feet. Willa's trust begins to split as Willa realizes that Powell has been questioning John. Powell manipulates Pearl into coming to the parlor to tell Powell the location, Willa hears the exchange outside of the window as Powell gets increasingly violent. Pearl can not accept this turn of events, and lies in bed helplessly. Pearl deludes herself that they are a happy family. In they bedroom, which looks church like due to the shadows and triangular architecture, Powell slits Willa's throat. John is awakened that night by the sound of a sputtering engine. The next morning at Spoon's, Powell is devastated that Powell's wife Willa had run away. Powell claims that Willa had turned Powell down on they honeymoon night, and was a drunk. Powell decides to stay for the children. The truth is revealed, as the camera transitions to a beautiful shot of seaweed swirling under water, mingling with Willa's hair. Willa sits serenely underwater in the passenger seat of Willa car as light streams over the body of both the woman and the car. A fish hook tugs on the frame of the windshield. It is Birdie, who has discovered the remains. An iris shot reveals Powell calling for the children, as Powell moves into the house. Pearl and John hide in the cellar. Reverend Powell corners children, until Icey arrives with dinner for the trio. When Icey leaves, Powell deprives children of dinner until children tell Powell what Powell wants to know. Uncle Birdie is convinced that if Birdie tells, Birdie will be accused of murder. Birdie begins to drink. When Rev. Powell threatens Pearl with a knife, John lies and says that the money is hid under a stone in the basement. Powell lights a candle and leads the children into finding the money. When Powell discovers that the floor is made of concrete, Powell grabs John the hair and threatens to split Powell open like a pig. Pearl spills the secret, but John knocks a shelf of preserves onto Powell. The kids run out and lock John in the cellar. kids run to the drunk Uncle Birdie who is nonresponsive. John puts Pearl in the boat, with Rev. Powell hot on kids heels. As the little boat gets away, Powell lets out a shriek of anger and frustration. As the boat floats down the river, Pearl sings to Miss Jenny. Many woodland animals appear in the foreground of the camera. Powell has commandeered a horse, making Powell's black preacher's suit look even more menacing contrasted with the white steed. The kids beg door to door, finding refuge in a barn. As the crescent moon rises high in the sky, John spots the Reverend singing John's trademark song Leaning. Leaning. Leaning on the Everlasting Arm. The two run back to the boat where they are found by Rachel Cooper, a woman who has adopted many abandoned children at the turn of the depression. Cooper bathes the two children, and incorporates children into Cooper large family, relating children to the story of baby Moses an orphan in a basket rescueed by the daughter of Pharaoh. John likes this comparison John realizes John can trust Rachel. The oldest child of Ms. Cooper's clan, Ruby, has a rebellious streak, going off to town to flirt with the boys. When Rev. Powell appears in town to woo Ruby, Ruby is ironically inspired by the preacher, and feels compelled to confess Ruby wrong doings to Rachel. Powell rides to Cooper's ranch where Powell comes to reclaim Pearl and John. Pearl runs to hug Powell, but John is able to grab the doll before Powell can get Powell's hands on doll. Cooper forces Powell off Pearl property with a shotgun. That night, Powell intimidates the family by singing on Cooper's front porch. The Leaning duet between Cooper and Powell symbolizes the standoff. When the light goes out, it becomes clear that Powell is inside the house. When a cat scares cat, Cooper wounds him with a shot, cornering cat in the barn. That night, John sleeps at Rachel's feet. When Powell is arrested, John has mixed feelings. As the police tackle Powell to the ground, John once again clutches John's stomach, and murmurs don't police then runs towards Powell, beating police with the doll, throwing the money at the arrested clergyman. Icey leads a fiery lynch mob against Reverend Powell, but even in court, John will not point out Powell's mothers murderer afraid of the consequence. Ruby is still enamored by the mystique Powell had held over Ruby. While the state guards lead Powell from the back to avoid the mob, Cooper's children follow Cooper like chicks following a mother hen. Christmas is Christmas in the Cooper home, and John only has an apple to give Rachel. Cooper accepts Christmas gratefully and gives John a watch John had admired in the very beginning of the picture. John and Pearl finally have a safe home.