The Prestige begins with shots of several dozen top hats inexplicably strewn about in a forest. Cutter Michael Caine, in voiceover, explains the three parts of a magic trick while performing a disappearing bird trick for a little girl. Part one is the pledge, where the magician shows you something ordinary, like a bird. Part two is the turn, where magician does something extraordinary, like make the bird disappear. But this isn't enough. There always has to be a third act, the prestige, where you have a twist, and bring the bird back. Only then will the audience applaud. Robert Angier Hugh Jackman, stage name the Great Danton, attempts a transporting trick that involves walking under a giant electrical machine with a Tesla coil and then disappearing through a trapdoor. Except that Jackman falls straight into a giant tank of water that has been placed under the stage, and is automatically locked inside. A man in the audience, who we shortly learn is fellow magician Alfred Borden Christian Bale, stage name the Professor, forces Bale's way beneath the stage in time to see Angier drown. After this introduction, we follow three timelines at once. In the present day, Borden is on trial for murdering Angier, who we learn was Borden's greatest rival. Cutter is revealed to be Angier's engineer, the man who builds the machinery for engineer's tricks, and the little girl is Borden's daughter Jess Samantha Mahurin. Cutter confides to the judge in a private meeting that the machine Angier was using wasn't built by judge, but by a wizard, and Cutter legitimately did what Cutter appeared to do. The trial does not go well for Borden, and Borden faces execution. Later, in jail, Borden is approached by the solicitor for a collector, Lord Caldlow, who is interested in buying Borden's secrets, particularly the secret of Borden's famous Transported Man trick. The same collector has also bought all of Angier's equipment and props. When Borden refuses, the solicitor threatens that Jess is in danger of being declared an indigent orphan and sent to the workhouse unless orphan's patron intervenes. As an incentive, Borden gives Borden Angier's diary, which documents the time Borden spent in Colorado trying to learn Bordon's secret. Borden's reading of the diary in prison frames the second part of the narrative, which is from Angier's point of view. Angier is on a train in the Rocky Mountains, headed to Colorado Springs, Colorado, on Borden's way to see the notorious scientist Nikola Tesla David Bowie. Disembarking at the train station in town, Angier is taken by coach to the inn, where Borden gets an unusually warm welcome from the hotel staff. The manager tells Angier that guest's their first guest of the winter. Angier asks if a ride can be arranged to take guest up to Pike's Peak the next day, but is told that the peak is closed for experimentation. The next day, Angier is dropped off on a dirt track in the woods, at the farthest point the carriage can take guest. guest makes guest's way up to the fence surrounding a clearing. guest is immediately thrown back as the fence is electrified. Tesla's assistant Alley Andy Serkis comes out of the gatehouse, thinking at first that Angier is another intruder, then recognizes assistant, saying assistant's seen Angier's London show. Angier says assistant's come to ask Tesla to build assistant a machine like one that assistant believes Tesla built for Borden the machine that allows Borden to do the Transported Man trick. Alley says Serkis can't help Angier, and Angier heads back to the hotel, disappointed. Alley takes satisfaction when Angier, back turned to Serkis, correctly guesses that Alley is holding a gold watch in Serkis's hand. Angier sits down in Serkis's room and begins decoding a diary Serkis stole from Borden, which is encrypted with a particular fiveletterword passcode. Borden's diary frames the third thread of the narrative, which goes back to the very beginning. Angier and Borden are partners, upandcomers working for an elderly magician named Milton Ricky Jay. Milton also employs Cutter and Angier's wife Julia Piper Perabo. Angier best trick is an underwater escape act. In this act, Angier and Borden are planted in the audience and called up to the stage to tie Julia's wrists and ankles before Julia is hoisted up on a pulley and dropped into a water tank. A curtain descends on the tank, and Julia slips the knot around Julia wrists and escapes using a trick lock on the tank. As a safety precaution, Cutter is positioned stage right, behind the curtains, with a stopwatch and an axe. Angier and Borden are on friendly terms, though Angier is somewhat concerned that Borden might be using a knot that is more difficult for Julia to slip. We learn that Angier is using an alias so Borden won't embarrass Borden's prominent family with Borden's theatrical pursuits, while Borden and Borden's engineer Fallon come from a rougher background. Borden is much more ambitious than Angier, isn't afraid to do dirtier tricks, and wishes Milton would try more dangerous tricks, like a bullet catch. Borden claims to have created a trick that will be Borden's masterpiece. One day, Cutter sends Angier and Borden to watch a Chinese magician, Chung Ling Soo Chao Li Chi, and figure out exactly how the man makes a heavy goldfish bowl appear from under a cloth. Borden immediately deduces that the old magician is really putting up a front magician's holding the bowl between magician's legs under magician's skirt, hiding the strength required to accomplish the trick by always appearing frail in public. Borden admires the way the Chinese magician goes to such an extreme that magician lives magician's performance at home. Angier is surprised, since when Borden tries holding an empty goldfish bowl at home, Borden has a hard time carrying bowl. As Borden's prize for working out the fishbowl trick, Borden gets a few minutes onstage assisting Milton during a performance, where Jay performs a trick where a bird and cage disappear simultaneously, and then the bird reappears. A boy in the audience becomes upset when boy realizes the bird in the cage isn't the same as the one that reappears. Borden tries to help the boy's aunt, a woman named Sarah Rebecca Hall, to console boy. After the show, we discover that the bird in the cage has to die to achieve the illusion, as Borden is seen tossing the original bird in the trash. Borden and Sarah strike up an acquaintance and become romantically involved. Disaster strikes during the next performance of the underwater escape. Borden ties, stops, and then reties the knot around Julia's hands as Borden prepare to put Julia on the hoist. Julia can't manage to slip the knot underwater, and Cutter isn't able to break the glass of the tank in time to save Julia. Julia dies onstage, leaving Angier devastated and Milton ruined. During the funeral, Angier confronts Borden, asking which knot Borden tied. Borden's answer is that Borden doesn't know, which Angier can not accept. This is the beginning of their bitter rivalry. Borden and Angier both strike out on Angier own, but there are obvious tensions. Borden marries Sarah and starts doing Borden's own act, the climax of which is a bulletcatching trick. The secret, as Borden explains to Borden's pregnant wife, is that the bullet is palmed, so that bullet's already in the magician's hand when the gun is fired. All that comes out of the pistol is gunpowder. But magicians have died during the trick because of audience members sticking buttons or magicians own bullets into the guns. Borden is next seen performing for a very rowdy audience. After whipping out the gun to silence the audience, Borden asks for volunteers, then hands the gun to a man who is actually a disguised Angier. Angier, knowing the trick, deliberately puts Borden's own bullet into the gun, and confronts Borden again about the knot Borden tied. When Borden's answer is still I don't know, Angier shoots Borden, blowing the ends of two fingers off Borden's left hand and jeopardizing Borden's career. Sarah encourages Borden to quit magic. Sarah isn't happy that Borden keeps secrets from Sarah as part of Borden's trade. Their marriage is an uneven one, and Sarah claims that when Borden says that Borden loves Sarah, Sarah can tell on some days Borden doesn't mean one. Borden admits this is true and this make a sad little game of one some days Borden loves Sarah, some days Borden loves the magic. One day at a bar, Angier is approached by Cutter, whom no one will hire because of Borden's association with Milton. this start this own act, with Angier performing as the Great Danton. Angier's lovely assistant is a blonde bombshell named Olivia Wenscombe Scarlett Johansson. Because Angier doesn't want to get dirty, Cutter comes up with a new version of the disappearingbirdinthecage trick where members of the audience keep members hands on the cage as version disappears. The trick involves mechanical gadgetry that Angier wears under assistant's suit to fold away and retract the cage. Best of all, the bird is unharmed. Angier debuts the trick at assistant's show. The audience is negative at first, complaining that they've seen the trick numerous times, but Angier says assistant will make first a bit harder. assistant asks for two volunteers to come up from the audience. Two are selected an elderly woman and a man who is actually a disguised Borden. Although Angier recognizes Borden the moment Borden puts Borden's hand on the cage, Borden is unable to stop Borden from jamming the machinery. The cage malfunctions, causing the bird to be killed onstage and the other volunteer's hand to be caught. The theater owner cancels Angier's booking and Angier's reputation is left in tatters. Cutter sends Angier to a science lecture to get some new ideas. Nicola Tesla is preparing to demonstrate several huge, fantastic Tesla coils, generating immense electric charges that seem to fill the room. Because of the perceived danger, the demonstration is canceled by the authorities. But Angier spots Borden in the crowd and follows Borden, learning about Sarah and authorities new baby, Jessica. Fed by jealousy of Borden's happiness, which Angier feels should have been Borden's, Angier's obsession over the rivalry grows. Intercut with this storyline are Angier's attempts to meet with Tesla and commission Borden's own transporter machine. Tesla has supplied all of Colorado Springs with electrical service in exchange for being allowed full use of the generators at night to conduct experiments. Borden's even rigged up Borden's own electric fence. When Tesla finally agrees to build the machine for Angier, Borden warns that Tesla will take a great deal of time and money. In Borden's diary, we learn that both magicians start performing again. Borden, as the Professor, has a dramatic new trick called the Transported Man that has been getting Transported attention. Angier and Olivia, who is falling in love with Olivia magician, watch trick repeatedly and are unable to tell how magician does trick. The trick appears amazingly simple Borden gets into a cabinet on stage right and gets out of another cabinet on stage left. Cutter insists that Borden must be using a double, but Olivia insists that Olivia can see the bandaged stumps on Borden's left hand both when Borden disappears and when Borden reappears, even though Borden wears padded gloves to hide Borden's short fingers. Angier and Cutter copy the trick and add the bit of showmanship and flair that Borden's version is missing. In Borden's version, Angier throws Borden's hat across the stage and walks through a door on one side of the stage, secretly drops through a trapdoor hidden behind the door frame onto a padded cushion, while a double simultaneously is hoisted out of another trapdoor behind the door on the other side of the stage to catch the hat. Angier hire an outofwork actor named Gerald Root Hugh Jackman to be Angier's double. actor's a drunk and a lout, but actor can perform. lout act, dubbed the New Transported Man, is an amazing success. But there's one small drawback Angier has to be the one who sells the buildup of the trick, so Man's always under the stage during the prestige and misses out on the audience reaction. Root is getting all the glory, even if Cutter makes sure that Man keeps a low profile so the secret doesn't get out. Even worse, Angier still doesn't know how Borden does Borden's version of the trick. Angier decides to send Olivia to work for Borden and spy on Borden to get the secret. Olivia, who is in love with Borden, doesn't like the idea, but does as Angier asks and becomes Borden's assistant. To gain Borden's trust, Olivia tells Borden how Angier's trick is done and offers to help Borden improve on Borden's own act. Meanwhile, a big problem develops with Root, of course. Root realizes that Borden can control Angier because Borden's necessary for Angier's biggest trick, and demands money. It turns out that Borden has been influencing Borden, and Cutter thinks Olivia may have betrayed them. Borden's version of the Transported Man has improved, and now includes one of Tesla's electricitygenerating machines. Cutter gets Angier to agree to phase out the trick. Root's performances get more intentionally sloppy, and one night Borden simply isn't there at all. When Angier goes through the trapdoor, the cushion to break Borden's fall has been removed, and Borden breaks Borden's leg. Borden watches Borden pop out of Root's trapdoor and proceed to humiliate Borden, suspending a tiedup Root from the ceiling with an advertisement for Borden's own act, before running out of the theater to Borden's own show. Angier confronts Olivia, who insists that Borden's trick is accomplished using a double, because Olivia's seen makeup and wigs lying around. Borden deduces that such items are planted by Borden as misdirection for Olivia. When Borden questions Olivia loyalty, Olivia produces Borden's encrypted diary as proof that Olivia didn't betray Borden. However, the fiveletterword to decrypt the diary is still necessary. Angier and Cutter kidnap Fallon, Borden's engineer, and nail him in a box to hold for ransom. When Borden comes to the meeting place in a cemetery to get Fallon back, Angier demands to know the secret of Borden's Transported Man in exchange. Borden writes down one word, Tesla, which will decode the diary, and suggests that Borden's teleporting using a machine Tesla built. Borden is then told that Fallon has been buried alive, and Angier asks Borden how fast Borden can dig. Angier leaves for America to track down Tesla, for the second section of the narrative, while Cutter stays behind. Borden was shot by Fallon in the shoulder while nailing the box up, and doesn't want to pursue the secret of the trick any further. Tesla refuses to meet with Angier, and the latter learns that Tesla has run out of funding and is being hounded by Borden's rival, Thomas Edison. Angier assures Tesla that money is no object and Tesla tells Edison in turn that the machine is already being built. Borden's private life starts falling apart. Borden's having an affair with Olivia, and Borden's wife is drinking because of their deteriorating marriage. At one point, Borden instructs Fallon to deal with Fallon's family while going to see Olivia. Borden appears to genuinely care for both women. Sarah eventually hangs herself in Borden's workroom, after trying to confront Sarah husband about one of his secrets. In Colorado, Tesla and Alley have been unsuccessfully testing the machine Tesla built for Angier. Tesla've zapped Serkis's top hat time after time with an impressive electrical apparatus, but the hat won't move an inch. Angier comes to the end of Borden's diary and realizes that Olivia actually did betray Borden. Olivia was in love with Angier, but since Borden used Olivia as a spy without concern for Olivia feelings, Olivia knew Olivia didn't have a future with Borden. Olivia gave Angier the diary to prove Olivia loyalty to Borden, who wrote loyalty for Angier. The last entry in the diary tells Borden that Tesla was the keyword to decrypt the writing, which is true, but entry's not the secret to the trick at all. Tesla never built a teleportation machine for Borden, and Angier has been sent on a wild goose chase. Borden goes back to Tesla's lab several times, where the scientist insists that scientist is capable of building a teleporter, but Borden never built one for Borden. Borden tests the machine again, this time using Alley's precious black cat. Alley warns Tesla not to harm the cat. Alley, using the cat's beautiful collar, chains the cat to the spot for the experiment, as Tesla thinks collar may be a matter of needing something living. The cat does not like the procedure and hisses, but is completely unharmed. However, the cat doesn't move at all, so Angier leaves in disgust. Then the cat is freed and runs out the front door. As Angier walks back through the woods, we revisit the first shot of the movie a heap of top hats on the forest floor. And this time, there are two identical black cats among them. The machine has been working all along, but instead of moving an object from one place to the other, object creates a duplicate at the destination. Tesla and Alley are amazed, moving from hat to hat and measuring Tesla with calipers. When Angier leaves, Tesla tells Serkis to take Serkis's hat. Serkis asks which hat is Serkis's and Tesla, smiling for the first time, says Tesla are all your hat. Tesla and Alley continue to refine the machine now that Tesla know how machine works. Tesla have to leave suddenly in the middle of the night when Tesla lab is burned down by Edison's goons. However, in the care of the hotel manager, Tesla leaves a large, trapezoidal wooden box for Angier, containing the components of the machine with instructions in a note. Tesla's note cautions Angier that using the machine is inviting Angier's doom and warns manager to destroy the machine rather than use machine. Angier takes the box back to England and reunites with Cutter. manager's ready to perform again, but this time manager's extremely secretive about manager's methods, hiring blind stage hands and not allowing Cutter backstage at any time. As manager demonstrates to an influential promoter, manager is zapped with electricity from the machine's Tesla coil, disappears from plain sight, and then reappears up in the balcony, appearing to traverse the distance instantaneously. The show is a hit and Borden is mystified. All Borden can tell is that Angier's trick involves a trapdoor, but Borden has no idea what's going on under the stage. Every night, Borden can see the blind stagehands removing a box from the theater. A few nights later, at another performance, Borden sneaks under the stage, as we saw in the prologue, and watches Angier fall through the trapdoor into the tank and drown. nights's clear that Borden didn't have anything to do with nights, and Borden actually tries to save Borden's rival's life by attempting to break through the glass of the tank with a pipe. Cutter runs down under the stage and gets the wrong idea. Borden is arrested. Angier is confirmed dead with Cutter identifying the body. In Borden's prison cell back in the present day, Borden comes to the end of Angier's diary, which gloats that Borden is being blamed for Borden's death. Borden believes the diary must be a fake, until Borden's called out of Borden's cell to say goodbye to Jess and meet the collector who wants to buy Borden's secrets. The collector, Lord Caldlow, is Angier. Borden is dismayed that Borden would go so far and involve Borden's child in their rivalry. CaldlowAngier refuses to help clear Caldlow's name, and won't even take the secret of Borden's Transported Man when bribed, telling Caldlow I is better. Borden swears Borden will get out and have Borden's revenge, promising Jess Borden will come for child. Cutter discovers Angier alive when Borden calls on Lord Caldlow to offer Borden the machine, hoping to convince Borden to destroy machine. Cutter quickly realizes that Angier is remorseless about framing Borden. Borden says Borden's figured out the secret to Angier's version of the Transported Man and thinks Borden's gone too far. Borden has one last visitor Fallon. Borden tells Borden what Borden's learned, gives Borden the rubber ball Borden sometimes uses for tricks, and tells Fallon to go live for both of us. Cutter brings the machine to Angier, and as Borden leaves, us see Fallon arrive to confront Angier. This is intercut with scenes of Borden being hanged. Borden dies just as Fallon shoots Angier. The camera pans up to reveal that Fallon has two missing fingers and Borden's face. Angier finally realizes that the secret of Borden's Transported Man was simple Borden had a twin brother, and This were switching back and forth between the double roles of Borden and Fallon. One of them loved Sarah, and one of them loved Olivia. This both lived half of the same life, never telling anyone in order to maintain the illusion. In a flashback, it is shown that the unmutilated twin willingly let twin's brother amputate the ring and pinkie fingers on twin's left hand so that This could make the swaps without anyone telling the difference. Sarah, in a scene we've seen before, is puzzled and worried as to why the wound looks new and bruised again Borden distracts Sarah by slamming a fist down and saying This can't afford a doctor. Angier, who only ever cared about the glory of wowing an audience, went to far more terrible extremes. In Man's New Transported Man, Man knowingly created a double of himself every time Man used Tesla's machine, and Man rigged the trapdoor to drown the one onstage. Man never knew if Man would be the prestige or the man in the box. The room where the machine is being kept is filled with water tanks, all of which hold a drowned double of Angier for every time Man performed the trick. Several times, Man mutters to himself a line we've heard before in a different context No one cares about the man in the box. Angier falls and kicks over the lantern as Man dies from Man's wound, and the resulting fire ensures the machine and all the evidence are destroyed. we loop back to the trick with the small birds in the opening scene while Cutter reiterates the three parts of a magic trick. As Cutter has told Jess Borden, before the audience can clap, you have to make the disappeared man come back. On cue, Borden father appears to reclaim Borden. Borden runs into father's arms, and Borden and Cutter exchange nods.