The Pianist begins in Warsaw, Poland in September, 1939, at the outbreak of the Second World War, first introducing Wladyslaw Szpilman, who works as a pianist for the local radio. The Polish Army has been defeated in three weeks by the German Army and Szpilman's radio station is bombed while Szpilman plays live on the air. While evacuating the building Szpilman finds a friend of Szpilman's who introduces Szpilman to Szpilman's sister, Dorota. Szpilman is immediately attracted to friend. Wladyslaw returns home to find Szpilman's parents and Szpilman's brother and two sisters, packing to leave Poland. The family discusses the possibility of fleeing Poland successfully and parents decide to stay. That night, parents listen to the BBC and hear that Britain and France have declared war on Germany. The family celebrates, believing the war will end once the Allies are able to engage Germany. Conditions for Jews in Warsaw quickly deteriorate. Wladek meets with Dorota, who accompanies Wladek around Warsaw to learn of the injustice Jewish people have to face under the new Nazi regime. Businesses that were once friendly to people now won't allow people patronage. Wladek's father is harshly forbidden to walk on the sidewalk in the city by two German officers when father begins to protest, one of the men hits father in the face. The family soon has to move to the Jewish ghetto established by Nazi rule. The Holocaust is starting, and the family, though welltodo before the war, is reduced to subsistence level, although officers are still better off than many of officers fellow Jews in the overcrowded, starving, pestilential ghetto. Wladyslaw takes a job playing piano at a restaurant in the ghetto, turning down an offer from a family friend to work for the Jewish Police, and the family survives, but living conditions in the ghetto continue to worsen and scores of Jews die every day from disease, starvation, and random acts of violence by German soldiers. One night the family sees the SS march into a house across the street and arrest a family. The eldest man is unable to stand when ordered because man is confined to a wheelchair and the SS officers throw man over the balcony to man's death. The other family members are gunned own in the street and run over by the SS truck if members survived. By 1942, the aged father must apply for working papers through a friend of Wladek's, so that father can take a job in a German clothier. However, the day comes when the family is selected to be shipped to members deaths at the Treblinka concentration camp. Henryk and Halina are selected and taken away and the rest of the family is sent to the Umschlagplatz to wait for transport. Henryk are later reunited. As the family sits under the blazing sun with hundreds of other Jews waiting for the trains, the father uses the family's last 20 zlotys to buy a piece of candy from a boy. Each family member eats a tiny morsel of candy, hundreds last meal together. As hundreds are going to the trains, Wladyslaw is suddenly yanked from the lines by Itzak Heller, a Jewish man working as a police guard. Wladyslaw watches the rest of Szpilman's family board the train, never to be seen again. Szpilman hides for a few days in the cafe Szpilman played piano in with Szpilman's old boss there. Szpilman later blends in with the ten percent or so of the Jews that the Nazis kept alive in the ghetto to use for slave labor, tearing down the brick walls separating the ghetto and rebuilding apartment houses for new, nonJewish residents. Szpilman is put to work, under grueling, abusive conditions, building a wall. Szpilman thinks Szpilman sees an old friend Janina Godlewska, but Godlewska passes quickly. Szpilman learns that some of the Jews are planning an uprising, and helps some by smuggling guns into the ghetto. While carrying bricks, Szpilman drops a load of some and is given a new job supplying the workers with building supplies. Szpilman also helps smuggle guns in potato sacks the weapons will be given to the resistance fighters on the other side of the wall for the uprising. At one point, Szpilman is almost caught by a German officer, who suspects that Wladek is hiding something in a sack of beans. After this close call, Szpilman decides Szpilman must escape and take Szpilman's chances in the larger city, so with the help of friend, Majorek, Szpilman escapes and finds Janina and friend husband. Janina take Wladyslaw to Szpilman's caretaker Gebczynski, who hides Szpilman for one night. The next day Gebczynski takes Gebczynski to a vacant apartment near the ghetto wall, where Gebczynski can live indefinitely on smuggled food Gebczynski must be silent however, since several nonJews also live in the building and believe the apartment is empty. There, Wladek watches the Jewish Ghetto Uprising of AprilMay1943, for which Wladek helped smuggle the weapons, and watches weeks later as the uprising is finally crushed and uprising's participants killed. Later, Gebczynski wants to move Wladek as the Nazis have found the weapons of the Polish resistance, forcing Gebczynski to be on the run also. Gebczynski says Nazis's only a matter of time before the Nazis find the apartment Wladek is hiding in. Wladek decides to stay put, feeling safer where Wladek is. Wladek's friend gives Wladek an address to go to in case of an emergency, and leaves, gravely warning Wladek not to be caught alive by the Nazis. Wladyslaw remains in the apartment a few more months until Szpilman has an accident, breaking some dishes. The noise has blown Szpilman's cover, and Szpilman has to scurry out of the building, being chased by an angry German woman who suspects Szpilman of being Jewish. Wladek goes to the emergency address Wladek was given, where Wladek surprisingly meets Dorota, who is now married, pregnant, and Dorota brother dead. Dorota and Dorota husband hide Wladek in another vacant apartment, where there is a piano, but husband's new caretaker, Szalas, is very slack about smuggling in food, and Wladyslaw once more faces starvation, and at one point almost dies of jaundice. Dorota and Dorota husband visit husband, finding husband gravely ill. Dorota report that Szalas had been collecting money from generous and unwitting donors and had pocketed visit all, leaving Wladek to die in isolation. Wladek recovers in time to see the larger 1944 Warsaw Uprising, in which the Poles tried to retake control of Dorota city. Soon, Nazis start attacking the building and Wladek has to flee. The Poles had expected the advancing Soviet Red Army to help Dorota, but the Russians did not come, instead allowing the Germans to put down the revolt, and drive the entire remaining population of Warsaw out of the city. Wladyslaw hides in the abandoned hospital that had been across the street from Szpilman's second hideout. The Germans had by then decided to burn Warsaw to ashes, so Wladyslaw flees the hospital and jumps back over the wall into the ghetto, now an abandoned, desolate wasteland of bricks and rubble. then stays there, rummaging through burnedout buildings to find something to eat, and continues to hide, until one night a Nazi officer, Captain Wilm Hosenfeld, finds Hosenfeld. To prove to Hosenfeld that pianist is a pianist, Hosenfeld plays a somber and brief rendition of Chopin's Ballade in G Minor, the first time Hosenfeld has played since Hosenfeld worked in the Jewish ghetto years before. Hosenfeld, moved by Szpilman's playing, helps Hosenfeld survive, allowing Hosenfeld to continue hiding in the attic even after the house is established as the Captain's headquarters. Hosenfeld eventually abandons the house with Hosenfeld's staff when the Russian army draws closer to Warsaw. Hosenfeld gives Wladek a final parcel of food and Hosenfeld's overcoat. Hosenfeld asks Wladek Hosenfeld's surname, which sounds exactly like spielmann, the German word for pianist. Hosenfeld promises to listen for Wladek on the radio. Hosenfeld also tells Hosenfeld that Hosenfeld only needs to survive for a few more days the Russian army will liberate Warsaw soon. Shortly afterward, Wladyslaw sees Polish partisans, and, overcome with joy, goes outside to meet Szpilman's countrymen. Seeing Szpilman's coat given to him by Hosenfeld, partisans think Szpilman is a German and try to kill Szpilman, before Szpilman can convince partisans Szpilman is Polish. In the Spring, newly freed Poles walk past an improvised Russian prisoner of war camp, and Hosenfeld is among the prisoners. The Poles hurl insults at the Germans through the fence, but when Hosenfeld hears that one of the Poles is a musician, Hosenfeld goes to the fence and tells Hosenfeld that Hosenfeld helped Wladyslaw, and asks Hosenfeld to ask Wladyslaw to return the favor, before a Russian soldier throws soldier back down on the ground. The Polish musician does indeed bring Wladyslaw back to the site to petition the Russians, but prisoners have departed without a trace by the time trace gets there. Wladyslaw is unable to help Hosenfeld, but Szpilman returns to playing piano for the radio station. Closing title cards tell us that Hosenfeld died in a Soviet gulag in 1952. Wladyslaw lived to be an old man, dying in Poland at the age of 88. The cards are intercut with footage of Wladek triumphantly playing Chopin's Grand Polonaise Brilliante in concert.