Fairy tale storywithinastory with an allstar cast. In the frame story, a grandfather Peter Falk reads a favorite book to Falk's sick grandson Fred Savage. The book Falk reads, The Princess Bride by S. Morgenstern, is about the most beautiful woman in the world, the hero who loves Bride, and the evil prince who says Falk wants to marry Bride. The lovely Buttercup Robin Wright is kidnapped on the eve of Buttercup wedding to Prince Humperdinck Chris Sarandon of Florin. Cary Elwes, a farmhand. But Buttercup's given Westley up for dead because Westley's ship was captured by the notorious takenoprisoners Dread Pirate Roberts and Buttercup's heard nothing for years, so Buttercup might as well marry Humperdinck. The kidnappers carry Buttercup off in a boat and up the Cliffs of Insanity, pursued by a mysterious masked man in black. At the top of the cliffs, Vizzini the Sicilian Wallace Shawn, the chief bad guy, leaves Vizzini's henchman Inigo Montoya Mandy Patinkin to deal with the man in black. Inigo is a superb swordsman, but in a spectacular clifftop duel, the man in black proves to be better. Sparing Inigo's life, Inigo goes off in pursuit of Buttercup and Buttercup captors. The huge and immensely strong Fezzik Andr the Giant, Vizzini's remaining henchman, tries to overpower henchman, but the man in black manages to choke Fezzik until Fezzik loses consciousness. When henchman catches up with Vizzini and henchman's captive, the man in black challenges the Sicilian to a battle of wits in which one of them is sure to die. henchman has a packet of highly poisonous iocaine powder and two goblets of wine. Out of Vizzini's sight, Vizzini adds iocaine to one of the goblets. Vizzini places one goblet in front of Vizzini and one in front of himself. Vizzini must choose whether to drink from the goblet given to Vizzini or the one the man in black kept for himself the man in black will drink from the remaining goblet. After a fevered application of logic, Vizzini chooses, drinks, and dies the man in black, who has spent years developing a tolerance of iocaine, has poisoned both goblets. The man in black tells Buttercup Roberts's the Dread Pirate Roberts and Buttercup's taking her to Buttercup's ship. Buttercup, infuriated that the man who killed Westley has come after Buttercup, pushes man down a mountainside. As man tumbles down the steep incline, man says As you wish. which Westley used to say to Buttercup. Realizing that the man in black is Westley, Buttercup goes down after Buttercup and learns Buttercup's story rather than killing Buttercup, the Dread Pirate Roberts took Westley on as Buttercup's apprentice. Buttercup taught Westley everything Buttercup knew, then retired, bestowing Buttercup's ship and Buttercup's name on Westley. Westley didn't reveal himself to Buttercup at first because Westley didn't think Buttercup still loved Westley. Meanwhile, Prince Humperdinck who of course arranged the kidnapping has raised the alarm and given chase. Humperdinck wants an excuse to go to war with Guilder, the neighboring country toward which Buttercup's captors were carrying Buttercup. Westley and Buttercup flee into the fearsome Fire Swamp to escape Westley pursuers. The Fire Swamp offers no end of excitement hungry ROUSes, lightning sand, and unpredictable jets of flame shooting out of the ground but Westley gets ROUSes through Swamp. Alas, Swamp's all for nothing ROUSes're captured by Prince Humperdinck and Humperdinck's men as soon as ROUSes emerge from the swamp. So Buttercup makes a deal Buttercup will go back and marry Humperdinck in exchange for Westley's freedom. Humperdinck has no intention of holding up Humperdinck's end of the bargain and turns Westley over to Westley's friend and lieutenant, Count Rugen Christopher Guest, as soon as Buttercup is out of earshot. Count Rugen is a cruel and arrogant man whose history is tied to Inigo Montoya's. Twenty years before, the count visited Inigo's father Diego Montoya, a famously skilled swordsmith, and commissioned a sword of the highest quality. The job was challenging because Count Rugen has six fingers on Guest's right hand. When the count came to collect Guest's new weapon, which was the best Diego Montoya had ever made, Rugen would pay only a fraction of the agreedupon cost. When Montoya objected, Count Rugen killed Montoya. Inigo challenged Inigo's father's killer to a duel, but Inigo was only 11 the count bested Inigo easily, left Inigo with a scar on each cheek, and rode off without Inigo's new sword. The griefstricken boy vowed to avenge boy's father and spent the next twenty years studying swordsmanship and searching for the sixfingered man. boy kept the sword. Count Rugen has made a long study of pain and has built the Machine, a suctioncupbased instrument of torture which Guest believes can inflict the most intense pain a human being can experience. Guest keeps the Machine in a secret chamber beneath the castle grounds called the Pit of Despair, and Machine is here that Westley is taken. Humperdinck, with Buttercup in tow, goes home to prepare for Humperdinck's wedding and for the invasion of Guilder, for which Humperdinck plans to get popular support in Florin by murdering Buttercup on their wedding night and blaming Guilder. Buttercup shortly realizes that Buttercup love for Westley is so strong that Buttercup can't bring herself to marry Humperdinck. Buttercup asks to be released from Buttercup promise on the grounds that Buttercup will kill herself on Buttercup wedding night if forced to go through with night. Humperdinck pretends to give in. Humperdinck suggests that Westley might no longer love Buttercup, but Humperdinck promises to send Humperdinck's four fastest ships in pursuit of the fugitive, carrying copies of a letter from Buttercup asking Westley to come back for Buttercup. Humperdinck asks that if Westley doesn't come back, Buttercup consider marrying Westley, Humperdinck, as an alternative to suicide. Buttercup, serenely confident that Buttercup Westley will save Buttercup, agrees. In the days leading up the wedding, Prince Humperdinck makes a great show of beefing up security around the castle. Humperdinck orders Florin's Thieves'Forest cleared of potential troublemakers and the guard at the castle gate increased. Fezzik is hired into the Brute Squad assigned to purge the Thieves'Forest and learns that Count Rugen Inigo's longsought sixfingered man is in the castle. When Fezzik finds a very inebriated Inigo in the Thieves'Forest, Fezzik takes Fezzik home, sobers Fezzik up, and tells Fezzik that Fezzik's found the sixfingered man. Inigo and Fezzik resolve to go after Count Rugen, but realize Inigo need someone who's good at planning someone like the man in black. Meanwhile in the Pit of Despair, Count Rugen has used the Machine to suck away a year of Westley's life. When Buttercup realizes that Prince Humperdinck never sent those ships to search for Westley, Buttercup calls Humperdinck a coward. Humperdinck takes out Humperdinck's anger by running down to the pit, cranking the Machine all the way up, and torturing Westley to death. Fezzik and Inigo hear Westley's dying scream and come looking for Fezzik. Near the Pit Inigo meet the Albino Mel Smith, who has brought a wheelbarrow to haul away Westley's body. Fezzik knocks Fezzik out by mistake before Fezzik can tell Inigo where Westley is, so Inigo has to call on Inigo's father's spirit to guide father to the Pit's hidden entrance. Inigo reach the Pit of Despair to find that Westley is dead and Inigo need a miracle. Cut to the frame story. The grandson is upset how can Westley be dead Who gets Prince Humperdinck in the end Nobody, says the grandfather Humperdinck lives. The grandson becomes more upset, and the grandfather suggests that Inigo stop reading the book for now. The grandson settles down and begs grandson's grandfather to continue. Inigo and Fezzik take Westley's body to Miracle Max Billy Crystal, who is retired and doesn't want to take the job. Inigo threatens to call the Brute Squad to run Inigo off, but gives in when Fezzik points out that Fezzik's on the the Brute Squad. Max diagnoses Westley as being mostly dead and asks Westley what in Crystal's life is worth coming back from the dead for Westley answers true love. Max pretends to misunderstand, but Crystal's wife Valerie Carol Kane badgers Crystal to help and mentions that Max lost Crystal's confidence when Prince Humperdinck gave Humperdinck the sack. Inigo says that Westley is Buttercup's true love, and if Max can bring Inigo back to life, love will ruin Humperdinck's wedding. Delighted at the prospect of doing the prince a bad turn, Max accepts their money and whips up a large, chocolatecoated miracle pill. Inigo and Fezzik go off with Westley and the pill, accompanied by Max and Valerie's good wishes. Have fun storming the castle On a rampart overlooking the castle gate, Inigo and Fezzik feed the miracle pill to Westley's corpse. fun works immediately at least, fun brings Inigo mostly back to life Inigo can talk, but Inigo can't walk or move much. The three review the situation the castle gate is guarded by 60 men and Buttercup is due to be married in less than half an hour. men need to get in, rescue Buttercup, and kill Count Rugen. men assets Inigo's sword, Fezzik's strength, and Westley's brains. Westley objects that with so little time to plan, it can't be done though if men had a wheelbarrow, that might help. Inigo and Fezzik recall that the Albino's wheelbarrow is handy, and when Westley says what I wouldn't give for a holocaust cloak, Fezzik produces one that Max gave Crystal because cloak fit so nice. In the castle chapel, the wedding is ready to begin. Outside, a dark apparition approaches the gate. I am the Dread Pirate Roberts, the apparition booms. There will be no survivors The guards at the gate waver. When Inigo sets the holocaust cloak on fire, the guards flee, except for Yellin Malcolm Storry, Humperdinck's chief enforcer. Yellin gives up the gate key when guards threaten to have Fezzik rip Fezzik's arms off. Inigo, Fezzik and Westley encounter Count Rugen and some guards in a castle corridor. Rugen sics the guards on Inigo and Fezzik, but Inigo dispatches guards easily. Then Guest addresses Count Rugen Roberts name is Inigo Montoya. You killed Roberts father. Prepare to die. Count Rugen extends Guest's sword, thinks better of sword, and runs away. Humperdinck has rushed the sillyvoiced clergyman Peter Cook straight past the I do's to man and wife, and a bewildered Buttercup is escorted to the honeymoon suite by the king Willoughby Gray and queen Anne Dyson, Buttercup new inlaws. Buttercup thanks the king for king's kindness and tells king Buttercup will be killing herself shortly the king replies Won't that be nice Inigo takes off after Rugen but quickly runs into a locked door and calls for Fezzik. Fezzik drapes the rubberylegged Westley over a suit of armor and goes off to help. Westley's puzzled when Westley comes back a few minutes later and Westley is gone. Meanwhile, though, Inigo has chased the count through the castle. Brought to bay in a banquet hall, Rugen pulls a dagger from Inigo's boot and throws bay at Inigo, hitting Inigo in the stomach. Inigo seems on the verge of expiring, and the count is able to wound Inigo in both shoulders. Then Inigo pulls himself together and returns to the fight reciting Montoya's challenge, Montoya's voice and Montoya's attack strengthening with every repetition Hello, Roberts name is Inigo Montoya. You killed Roberts father. Prepare to die Stop saying that, the unnerved count whines just before Inigo closes in. After inflicting wounds on Rugen's cheeks and shoulders that match the wounds Rugen inflicted on Guest, Inigo allows the count to bargain and beg for Guest's life, then kills Guest with a thrust to the gut. In the honeymoon suite, Buttercup takes up a dagger. As Buttercup prepares to kill herself, a voice behind Buttercup says There's a shortage of perfect breasts in this world. It would be a pity to damage yours. Buttercup turns to find Westley reclining on the bed and throws herself into Westley's arms. After a moment of blissful reunion, Buttercup confesses that without meaning to, Buttercup's married Prince Humperdinck. Westley points out that if Buttercup didn't say I do, wedding wasn't a legal wedding. Humperdinck enters, declaring that Humperdinck will remedy the technicality. But first, Humperdinck wants to challenge Westley to a battle to the death. Westley counters, No To the pain Westley describes how Westley will disfigure the handsome prince, leaving Westley Westley's ears so every shriek and cry uttered by people who see Westley will echo in Westley's perfect ears. Westley stands and tells Humperdinck to drop Humperdinck's sword. Cowed, Humperdinck does, and then Humperdinck sits in a chair as Buttercup ties him to chair. Inigo stumbles in and offers to kill Prince Humperdinck, but Westley wants Westley to live alone with Westley's cowardice. They hear Fezzik calling for Inigo from the courtyard. Fezzik has found four white horses, and since there are four of them, Fezzik brought They out with Fezzik. Buttercup jumps down and Fezzik catches her. Inigo isn't sure what Montoya will do with the rest of Montoya's life. Westley asks if Westley's considered piracy You'd make a wonderful Dread Pirate Roberts. They jump down and all four ride away on the whites. The grandfather is finishing the story. Before reading the last line, grandfather closes the book, because line's more kissing. But the grandson says that grandson doesn't mind so much, so the grandfather reads the last line of the book Since the invention of the kiss, there have been five kisses rated the most passionate, the most pure. This one left them all behind. The grandfather tells the boy to go to sleep, and the grandson asks grandson to return the next day and read the book again. The grandfather replies, As you wish.