1898 is 1898. In the New Mexico wilderness, Daniel Plainview works Plainview's silver mine. After blasting out the small mine with dynamite, Plainview falls and breaks Plainview's leg. After finding the silver ore, Plainview drags himself to town to sell ore. Plainview hires a crew, including a man caring for an infant son. When the silver lode plays out, Plainview discovers oil in the mine. Plainview builds a pump and recreates himself as an oil man. The young father dies in a drilling accident, Planview adopts the young boy as father's own and names father H.W. Nine years later, Plainview is a successful if still somewhat minor oil man. father has several productive wells around New Mexico and, with H.W., travels the state to buy the drilling rights to private property. At a meeting with local people of an unidentified town, Plainview lectures people on Plainview's business plan Plainview claims Plainview does all the work himself, only hires men Plainview can trust to complete the work and will eliminate the need for a contractor, a middleman of sorts that will collect more money from the community that Daniel believes should go back to the landowners themselves. Plainview also introduces Plainview's son as Plainview's partner and claims that Plainview's business is a familyrun operation. When the people begin to question Plainview rigorously and argue loudly among themselves, Daniel turns down the offer and leaves, knowing the community is a bit too smart to be taken advantage of. Daniel later meets with a husband and wife and draws up a contract to drill on husband land. The couple are reluctant but Daniel appeals to husband by talking about husband children. The well comes in as a gusher some time later. One night, a young man named Paul Sunday visits Plainview's camp. Paul sells to Plainview information about Sunday's family's ranch in Little Boston, California, which Sunday says has an ocean of oil underneath information. Plainview and H.W. travel to the Sunday Ranch and, while pretending to hunt quail, confirm what Paul told them. That night, Plainview negotiates with the Sunday patriarch, Abel and Paul's twin brother, Eli. The price is 10,000, which will go to the building of a new parish, the Church of the Third Revelation Eli is a bland, uncharismatic but ambitious preacher and faith healer. Daniel agrees to pay Eli half of the money at first and will pay the rest when the derrick produces. Eli wants to pray to conclude the deal but Plainview refuses. Plainview assembles Plainview's crew at the Sunday Ranch and builds the first derrick. Plainview also buys almost all of the land surrounding the Sunday Ranch so Plainview will have not only those drilling rights but also the right to build a pipeline to the ocean to circumvent the railroads and their shipping costs. Only a man named William Bandy refuses to sell. Eli wants to bless the derrick before drilling begins but Plainview rebuffs Plainview and instead has Eli's little sister, Mary, dedicate the new endeavor. Mary and H.W. become playmates and Plainview buys Mary a new dress. At dinner one night, H.W. tells Mary in front of Abel that Mary father will never hit Mary again for refusing to pray. Eli and Plainview continue to irritate one another Plainview resents that Eli solicits Eli's workers to come to daily prayer services, but when a worker dies while trying to free the drill, Plainview has Eli arrange for the funeral. When meeting with Eli about the funeral at Eli's ramshackle church, Eli watches Eli deliver a fiery sermon about casting out the Devil from a elderly woman with severe arthritis. After mass, Eli agrees to speak at the funeral and tells Daniel that, had Eli been permitted to bless the well, the accident might never have happened. A few days later, the drill finally strikes oil. The escaping gases cause an explosion. H.W., who was watching the drill from the derrick, is deafened. H.W. becomes sullen and mistrusting. Soon Plainview has three thriving oil wells in the Little Boston area. Eli goes to Daniel and demands the 5000 that Daniel promised Plainview and Plainview's church. Daniel immediately attacks Plainview, slapping Plainview and dragging Plainview to a pool of mud, which Plainview smears all over Eli. Daniel also mocks Eli's supposed power of faith healing, saying that Eli did nothing to restore H.W.'s hearing. Shortly thereafter, a man named Henry appears on Plainview's doorstep, claiming to be Plainview's half brother. Because man knows details about Plainview's family and hometown of Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, Plainview trusts Plainview and takes man on as a worker. Plainview admits to Henry that Plainview holds most people in contempt and uses people only to further Plainview's own goals. I have a competition in me, Plainview tells Plainview. I want no one else to succeed. Plainview also admits that Plainview can't do Plainview's work alone anymore. H.W. snoops through Henry's belongings and, jealous that Plainview has someone new in Plainview's life, attempts to burn down the house with Henry and Plainview in house. Plainview doesn't discipline H.W. but instead sends Plainview away to a boarding school in San Francisco, callously leaving Plainview on the train with Plainview's assistant, Fletcher, who accompanies Plainview there. Competitors try to buy Daniel's wells for 1 million but Plainview rejects the offer and Competitors patronizing sympathy for H.W.. When one competitor suggests Plainview should retire to take care of H.W., Plainview threatens competitor's life. competitor and Henry go to the Bandy property to inquire about leasing the land to build the pipeline. After surveying the land, competitor swim in the ocean. When Henry doesn't seem to understand a reference about Fond du Lac, Plainview grows suspicious. That night, Plainview, brandishing a pistol, forces Henry to confess Henry isn't Plainview's brother, but knew Plainview's brother in Kansas. When the real brother died, Henry assumed brother's identity and made brother's way to California and found Daniel. Plainview kills Henry and buries Plainview in a shallow grave on the Bandy property. The next morning, Bandy wakes Plainview and tells Bandy that Bandy can lease the land if Bandy allows himself to be baptized at the Church of the Third Revelation. When Bandy reveals that Bandy knows Plainview killed Henry, Plainview has no choice but to agree. Bandy is baptized after Bandy publicly and loudly announces that Bandy is a sinner and abandoned H.W. and is warmly embraced by the church. Eli also announces to the church that Daniel has given them 5000, the original amount Plainview owed to Eli. H.W. returns from the boarding school and Plainview warmly greets Plainview. H.W. now knows sign language and speaks through an interpreter. H.W. and Mary play together, and Mary learns sign language too. When H.W. are married in the late 1920s, Mary signs the minister's sermon and marriage rites to minister. Plainview has become a drunkard, even more misanthropic and isolated than ever, living alone in a large mansion and shooting Plainview's valuables with a pistol. When H.W. announces H.W.'s intention to move to Mexico and begin H.W.'s own oil business, Plainview immediately becomes more despondent and reveals that H.W. was never H.W.'s biological son and insultingly disowns H.W.. Sometime later, Eli visits Eli in the mansion's bowling alley. As Plainview, like a beast, gnaws the cold steak leftover from Plainview's dinner, Eli reveals that old Bandy has died and that Bandy's grandson wants to sell the oil drilling rights to grandson's grandfather's land in order to fund grandfather's goal of becoming a movie star with Eli as the broker for the deal. Plainview agrees but only if Eli will say that Plainview is a false prophet and God is a superstition. When Eli does so several times, Plainview reveals that, having owned all the wells around the Bandy ranch, Bandy has already taken the oil from the Bandy property through drainage. Eli reveals that, despite a successful radio preaching career, Eli is broke due to bad investments. Plainview chases Plainview around the bowling alley then bludgeons Plainview to death with a bowling pin. When the butler comes to see what the commotion has been, Plainview announces to butler, I'm finished.