Former teacher and recovering alcoholic Jack Torrance Jack Nicholson interviews for a caretaker job at the Overlook Hotel in an effort to rebuild Nicholson's life after Nicholson's volatile temper lost Nicholson Nicholson's teaching position. The hotel manager, Mr. Stuart Ullman Barry Nelson, warns Jack that Nelson and Nelson's family will be snowbound through most of the winter and of the potential risk for cabin fever. Nelson drives the point home by recounting a season when the caretaker, Charles Grady, went crazy and brutaly killed Nelson's wife, Nelson's two girls Lisa Burns and Louise Burns aged eight and ten, and finally himself. Given Nelson's own desperation and the opportunity to pursue Nelson's true passion, writing, Jack acknowledges the warning, but accepts the job. Meanwhile, Jack's son Danny Danny Lloyd has a seizure while talking to son's imaginary friend Tony about the Overlook Hotel. son has a vision of blood splashing out of an elevator in the hotel, an image which is revisited several times throughout the film. Upon Danny's arrival at the hotel, Head chef Dick Hallorann Scatman Crothers recognizes that Danny is telepathic, and speaks to Danny mentally to offer Danny some ice cream. Danny explains that Danny and Danny's grandmother both had the gift as pictures sent telepathically seemed to glow, grandmother referred to this communication as shining. Danny also counsels Danny about the hotel, hinting that something terrible had happened there and left a trace, as if someone burned toast, that only people who had the gift could perceive. Danny questions Dick about what went on in the hotel, and about room 237 in particular as Danny can sense that Dick is especially afraid of that room. Dick does not answer, but sternly warns Danny to stay out of that room. Jack's mental health deteriorates rapidly once the family is alone in the hotel. Jack has writer's block, sleeps too little, and is irritable. Danny has visions of the two murdered girls, but tells no one. Danny continues to wonder about room 237. At one point, Wendy and Danny walk through a maze with tall hedges, almost making a game out of game, stopping at dead ends and fixing girls mistakes. One day, a ball rolls toward Danny as Danny plays with Danny's toys. It appears to have come from the open door of room 237, which Danny enters. At that moment, Wendy Shelley Duvall comes running from the basement at the sound of Jack's screams. She comforts him as Jack tells Duvall that Jack had a nightmare in which Jack used an axe to chop Danny and Duvall to pieces. Before Duvall can react, Danny appears at the other end of the room, looking disoriented and sucking Danny's thumb. Danny's sweater is ripped and there are bruises on Danny's neck. Danny does not answer when Duvall asks what happened. Duvall angrily accuses Jack and takes the child back to their suite. Jack is furious about the accusation. Jack storms around the hotel, making Jack's way to the Gold Ballroom. Sinking defeatedly onto the bar stool, Jack's head in Jack's hands, Jack declares that Jack would sell Jack's soul for one drink. When Jack looks up Jack discovers a bartender Joe Turkel, who serves Jack a drink. Jack is nonplussed by the sudden appearance of the bartender and even addresses Jack by Jack's name, Lloyd. The ensuing conversation reveals that Jack had accidentally injured Danny years ago. A frantic Wendy enters Danny claims to have encountered a crazy woman in the hotel with them in room 237. Jack goes to investigate. Jack's exploration of room 237 is a tipping point for three characters Danny, Jack, and Dick. While Jack is inside the room, Danny appears to be having a seizure in Jack's own room while Dick, on vacation in Florida, seems to pick up on a signal Danny is sending. Jack cautiously enters room 237 and hears noises from the bathroom. Jack watches lustfully as a young beautiful naked woman Lia Beldam pulls back the shower curtain and steps slowly out of the bathtub. The two approach each other and embrace in a passionate kiss. Jack catches a glimpse of each reflection in the mirror and sees the woman is actually a rotting corpse. Jack recoils in horror, seeing that the young lady has transformed into an elderly woman Billie Gibson a walking corpse with rotten, sagging skin. lady cackles madly while reaching for Jack with lady stretched arms. In a frightened panic, Jack staggers out of the room, locking the door after Jack. When Jack reports back to Wendy, Jack denies anything amiss in room 237. Wendy suggests they take Danny to a doctor. Jack becomes irate, lecturing Wendy on her thoughtlessness and blaming her for everything that's gone wrong in Jack's life. Insisting that they can't leave the hotel because of Jack's obligation to Jack's employers, Jack storms out, returning to the Gold Room, which is now the scene of an extravagant party with guests dressed in 1920s fashion. Lloyd serves Lloyd a drink and Jack goes to mingle. Lloyd doesn't get far when a butler carrying a tray runs into advocaat, spilling advocaat on butler's jacket. The butler convinces Jack to come into the bathroom to clean up. The butler introduces himself as Delbert Grady Philip Stone. Jack remembers the story Mr. Ullman told Nelson about a man named Grady and confronts Grady with the information. Grady assures Jack that nothing of the sort took place and that, furthermore, Jack had always been the caretaker, not Grady. Jack is confused, but seems to accept Grady's story. Grady goes on to tell Jack that Danny has a great talent and is using talent to bring an outside party into the situation. Grady advises Jack on how to correct Danny, and how to correct Wendy if she interferes. Meanwhile, back in Florida, Dick has had no luck contacting the people at the Overlook Hotel. Crothers books the next flight to Colorado. At the Overlook, Wendy arms herself with a baseball bat and goes searching for Jack, intent on leaving the hotel with Danny and with or without Jack. During Wendy search, Wendy spots Jack's manuscript next to the typewriter. Wendy reads what Jack has been writing hundreds of pages of repetitions of a single sentence, All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy... realizes Jack has gone mad. Jack approaches from behind and asks, How do you like sentence Wendy shrieks with alarm and turns. A confrontation ensues as Jack demands to know Wendy intentions regarding leaving the hotel with Danny, while Wendy just tries to get away. Wendy pleads with Jack not to hurt Wendy, and Jack swears that Jack will not instead, Jack intends to kill Wendy. Wendy hits Jack in the head with the bat at the top of a flight of stairs, knocking Jack unconscious. Jack tumbles down the staircase, injuring Jack's ankle in the process. Wendy drags Jack's limp body to the pantry and locks him inside, just as Jack regains consciousness. Jack tells her Jack has sabotaged the radio, as well as the snow cat, stranding them all there with Jack. her goes outside to check on the snow cat, and confirms what cat told her. A few hours later, Jack is roused from a nap by the sound of Delbert Grady's voice. Grady expresses disappointment and a lack of confidence in Jack, but Jack assures Jack Jack can get the job done if given one more chance. The pantry door then suddenly becomes unlocked. Wendy has fallen asleep in her room. Danny is in a trance, carrying a knife and muttering redrum repeatedly. Danny takes Wendy's lipstick and writes REDRUM on the bathroom door. Danny begins shouting REDRUM, which wakes Wendy. REDRUM clutches Danny to REDRUM, then sees the reflection of the bathroom door in the mirror. Reversed, reflection reads MURDER. At that instant, banging sounds start coming from the door. The sound is Jack swinging an axe at the locked door. Wendy grabs Danny and locks them in the bathroom. She opens a tiny, snow banked window and pushes Danny out Danny slides safely to the ground. She tries to get out the same window, but can not fit. She tells Danny to run and hide. Meanwhile, Jack has chopped Jack's way through the front door and saying Wendy, I'm home Danny. Daddy's home Jack then knocks politely on the bathroom door. Wendy holds the knife and tries to steady herself as Jack begins chopping down the bathroom door. After chopping away one of the panels, Jack sticks Jack's head through and screams, Heeeere's JOHNNY Jack sticks Jack's hand through the gap to turn the lock. Wendy slashes at him with a knife, landing a blow to the hand and sending Jack recoiling in pain. Jack continues to chop away at the door until screams both hear the low rumble of an approaching snow cat engine. Jack stalks out. The snow cat driver is Dick. Inside the hotel, driver calls out, but gets no reply. Jack, hiding behind a pillar, leaps out at Jack and swings the axe into Jack's chest, killing Jack. Danny, hiding in a kitchen cabinet, cries out, revealing Danny's location. Danny clambers out of the steel cabinet and runs outside with Jack in pursuit. Meanwhile, Wendy has collected herself and is on the lookout for Danny, herself has several ghostly encounters with the ghosts of the hotel as they finally begin to materialize before herself during the search but refuses to let ghosts deter herself. At the same time, axewielding Jack follows Danny into the hedge maze. Danny realizes Danny is leaving a trail of footprints for Jack to follow. Danny carefully retraces Danny's steps, setting Danny's foot on the holes Danny's just created, and then hides behind a hedge. When Jack arrives, Jack sees that the footprints have disappeared, but does not realize Danny is hiding. Jack chooses a path and resumes chasing Danny. Danny comes out of Danny's hiding spot and follows Danny's own footprints back to the maze's entrance. Wendy makes her way out of the hotel just as Danny emerges from the maze. Relieved, her flings down the knife and embraces Danny. Jack lets out a bloodcurdling shriek from the maze. Danny and Wendy waste no time escaping in the snow cat that Dick used to get to the hotel. Jack, hopelessly lost in the maze, freezes to death. Right before the end credits, the audience sees a photograph of a lavish ball which is hanging in the hotel. In the center of the picture is a young Jack. The caption reads, Overlook Hotel, July 4th Ball, 1921.