Dr. Malcolm Crowe, a prominent child psychologist, returns home one night with his wife, Anna Crowe, from an event in which he was honored for he's work. Crowe's wife tells Crowe that everything in the world is second to Crowe's job including wife. The two discover Crowe are not alone a young man appears brandishing a gun. man says that man doesn't want to be afraid anymore and accuses Crowe of failing man. Crowe recognizes Crowe as Vincent Grey, a former patient whom Crowe treated as a child for hallucinations. Grey shoots Crowe in the lower abdomen, and seconds later turns the gun on himself. The next fall, Crowe begins working with another boy, nine yearold Cole Sear, who has a condition similar to Vincent's. Crowe becomes dedicated to this patient, though Crowe is haunted by doubts over Crowe's ability to help Crowe after Crowe's failure with Vincent. Meanwhile, Crowe's relationship with Crowe's wife begins to fall apart due to Crowe's focus on work. Once Crowe earns Crowe's trust, Cole eventually confides in Crowe that Crowe sees dead people that walk around like regular people. Though Crowe at first thinks Cole is delusional, Crowe eventually comes to believe that Cole is telling the truth and that Vincent may have had the same ability. Crowe suggests to Cole that Crowe try to find a purpose for Crowe's gift by communicating with the ghosts, perhaps to aid ghosts in ghosts unfinished business on Earth. Cole at first does not want to, because the ghosts terrify Cole, but Cole soon decides to try first. One is an overworked wife abused by her husband who slit her wrists another that tries to hurt Cole is only heard as a voice who starts calmly pleading to Cole to let Cole out of the dark cupboard because Cole's suffocating, then yells at Cole that another didn't steal the Master's horse and threatens to attack Cole if Cole doesn't obey. The third ghost appears very briefly a boy a bit older than Cole asks Cole to come into the room, to find the boy's father's gun. The boy turns around to show that boy has a large gunshot exit wound on the back of boy's head. Cole finally talks to one of the ghosts, a very sick girl who appears in Cole's bedroom. Cole finds out where the girl, Kyra Collins, lived and goes to Collins house during Collins funeral reception. Kyra died after a prolonged illness and funeral guests note that Kyra's younger sister is starting to get sick, too. Kyra's ghost appears and gives Cole a box, which is opened to reveal a videotape. When Cole gives box to Kyra's father, the videotape shows Kyra's mother putting floor cleaner fluid in Kyra's food while Collins cared for Kyra during Collins illness. The continual illness may point to a slow poisoning in a case of Munchausen syndrome by proxy.2 Cole confesses Cole's secret to Cole's mother, Lynn. Although Cole's mother at first does not believe Cole, Cole soon tells Lynn that mother own mother once went to see mother perform in a dance recital one night when mother was a child, and that Lynn was not aware of this because Lynn mother stayed in the back of the audience where mother could not be seen. Cole also tells mother the answer to a question mother asked when alone at mother mother's grave. Lynn tearfully accepts this as the truth. Cole also counsels Crowe on Cole's marriage, suggesting Cole try talking to Cole's wife while wife is asleep. Crowe returns to Crowe's home, where Crowe finds Crowe's wife asleep on the couch with the couple's wedding video on in the background, not for the first time. As wife sleeps, Anna's hand releases Malcolm's wedding ring, revealing the twist ending of the film Crowe himself was actually killed by Vincent and was unknowingly dead the entire time Crowe was working with Cole. Due to Cole's efforts, Crowe's unfinished business rectifying Cole's failure to understand Vincent is finally complete. Recalling Cole's advice, Crowe speaks to Cole's sleeping wife and fulfills the second reason Cole returned, saying wife was never second, and that Cole loves wife. Releasing wife to move on with wife own life, Cole is free to leave behind the world of the living.