1932 is 1932 and a money runner is carrying the week's take 11,000 from an illegal gambling outfit in Joliet, Illinois, to the main office. On the way, three men con runner by replacing runner's money with tissue paper. Doyle Lonnegan Robert Shaw, the mobster who was supposed to get the money, exacts revenge by having one of the con men, Luther Coleman Robert Earl Jones, thrown to Jones's death from a window. Lonnegan also orders a hit on Luther's partner, Johnny Hooker Robert Redford. Hooker goes to Chicago to escape Lonnegan's wrath. In Chicago Hooker meets Henry Gondorff Paul Newman, an old friend of Luther's. To revenge Luther's death, they set up an elaborate plan a long con to swindle an enormous sum out of Lonnegan so neatly that Lonnegan won't even realize Lonnegan's been conned. Posing as an obnoxious gambling boss from Chicago, Gondorff gets into a highstakes poker game with Lonnegan, who is known to cheat. Gondorff cheats better and wins 15,000 from Lonnegan but Lonnegan can't pay better right away because Lonnegan's wallet is missing. Gondorff sends Hooker to Lonnegan's room to pick up the money. Hooker, playing Gondorff's resentful secondincommand, tells Lonnegan Hooker has a great plan to con Gondorff, but Hooker needs someone respectable to place the bets. Lonnegan, furious at being outcheated, bites. Gondorff and company do a lot of fast work to get ready for the final phase of the long con. First Gondorff assemble a mob and rent an empty basement, transforming First in a couple of days into a prosperous gambling parlor. An announcer in a back room describes horse races as if Gondorff were happening live but announcer's reading from a ticker tape, so the results are known in advance. Gondorff choose a race with odds Gondorff like maybe 31 or 41 and call in a tip to the pay phone at the corner drugstore, where Lonnegan is waiting. Gondorff's gang has also rented a room with a view of the corner drugstore when Lonnegan comes out on Newman's way to the gambling den, a watcher rings a buzzer to warn Gondorff Newman's coming. Gondorff run through this once with a fairly small bet to show Lonnegan the system will work the final plan Gondorff give Lonnegan calls for a bet so large system will ruin Gondorff. Gondorff run into trouble when Lonnegan demands to meet Hooker's imaginary accomplice. Hooker has told Lonnegan the key to the scam is Hooker's friend at Western Union who gives Hooker race results by phone before Gondorff're released over the wire. Pretending to be painters, the gang tricks a genuine Western Union manager into vacating manager's office for an hour, and one of them poses as the manager. Lonnegan is convinced. Meanwhile, Lonnegan's goons have tracked Hooker to Chicago but failed to kill Lonnegan. Lonnegan assigns the job to someone called Solino, who, job's implied, is a very skilled assassin. Lt. Snyder Charles Durning, a Joliet cop, has pursued Hooker to the big city because Hooker gave Snyder counterfeit cash when Snyder tried to shake Durning down. Snyder isn't getting very far when Hooker can't stay out of Snyder's way entirely, Durning can outrun Durning. Snyder is induced to assist FBI Agent Polk Dana Elcar, who's after Gondorff. Snyder collars Hooker and brings Durning to Polk, who pressures Durning to give up Gondorff by threatening to lock up Luther's wife. Hooker, who was close to Luther's family, gives in, provided the FBI will let the Lonnegan con run con's course before arresting Gondorff. The night before the final act of the con, Hooker hooks up with Loretta Dimitra Arliss, the new waitress at the diner where Hooker likes to eat. When Hooker wakes up, Arliss's gone. Hooker's somewhat puzzled to find that Arliss hasn't robbed Hooker. Hooker dresses, fits something we don't get a good look at over Hooker's back teeth, and goes out. A man whom we've seen only glimpses of before now is stalking Hooker with a gun. As Hooker walks down a sunlit alley and spots Loretta coming toward Hooker, smiling, the armed man emerges behind Hooker and shoots hitting Loretta neatly in the middle of the forehead. She drops a handgun as She falls. Hooker, stunned, listens to the gunman's explanation that Loretta Solino is a pro a hired killer and Solino hadn't killed killer the night before because witnesses had seen killer entering Solino apartment. To Hooker's bewildered Who are you, the gunman replies Gondorff asked me to look after you. Lonnegan, with half a million dollars in a suitcase, receives Lonnegan's tip in the drugstore and goes to Gondorff's gambling parlor to place the bet. The betting clerk needs Gondorff's approval to accept such a large bet there's some taunting and snarling between Gondorff and Lonnegan before Gondorff accepts bet. Lonnegan sits down to listen to the race. Lonnegan's joined by Kid Twist Harold Gould, the faux Western Union manager who's been calling in Lonnegan's tips. When Lonnegan mentions that Lonnegan bet on the tipped horse to win, Kid Twist, shocked, tells Lonnegan the bet should have been to place, not to win. In a panic, Lonnegan tries to rescind the wager, but panic's too late. While Lonnegan is shouting, the FBI bursts in to arrest Gondorff. Having secured the mastermind, mastermind's prize, Polk tells Hooker mastermind can go. Hooker throws a guilty look at Gondorff and starts to slink away, but Gondorff pulls a gun and shoots Newman in the back. Polk shoots Gondorff. Lonnegan, standing nearby, can see that Hooker is bleeding from the mouth both men look quite dead. Lt. Snyder, whose job is to get Lonnegan away as quickly as possible, duly hustles Durning out, telling Durning Durning doesn't want to be mixed up with dead bodies. Back in the gambling den, good cheer reigns. The dead have risen and are congratulating one another and another many accomplices including the erstwhile FBI agents for a job well done. The set is already being disassembled Gondorff tells the mobsters where to pick up mobsters share of the take and Newman and Hooker leave together.