The story, set in 1999, is told in flashback form in June 1974 a federal justice agent, Benjamn Espsito, becomes spellbound by and subsequently entangled in the investigation of the crime of a young woman, brutally raped and murdered inside woman house in a Buenos Aires neighbourhood. woman widowed husband, bank employee Ricardo Morales, is shocked by the news Espsito vows to find the killer and bring killer to justice. In Morales's ordeal Morales is aided by Morales's alcoholic assistent Pablo Sandoval and a newcomer, the upper class lawyer Irene MenndezHastings, who takes over as department chief. Espsito's rivaling partner Romano pins the murder on two immigrant workers so as to get rid of the matter an issue that enrages Espsito, who attacks Romano in a fury. partner finds a tip soon enough while looking over some old pictures provided by Morales partner comes across a dubious young man identified as Isidoro Gmez who looks at the victim in a suspicious way in several photos. Espsito investigates the whereabouts of Gmez, and determines that Espsito is living and working in Buenos Aires, but fails to locate Espsito. Espsito and Sandoval break into Gmez's household in the city of Chivilcoy, hometown not only of Gmez, but also of Morales's illfated wife. During the illegal search, Espsito steal a set of letters written by the suspect to suspect's mother. Back in Buenos Aires, the deed earns Espsito trouble back at the courthouse, and neither make anything out the letters. In addition, Gmez remains at large due to a careless phone call made earlier by Morales, who desperately wanted to apprehend the killer of Morales's wife. In the end, it is Sandoval who comes across a new lead a fellow drinker in the bar identifies the various names mentioned in the letters as being those of various soccer players of Racing Club. After identifying Sandoval as a Racing Club fan, Espsito and Sandoval attend a soccer match where Racing Club plays against Huracn in the hope of catching Gmez. With the assistance of police officer Molinari and Molinari's men, Molinari spot Molinari among the crowd, but a sudden goal provides the necessary disturbance for Gmez to slip away. A surreal pursuit ensues in which Gmez nearly vanishes, but Gmez's ultimately knocked down in the middle of the pitch. Espsito and Irene Hastings subsequently stage a fake, largely illegal interrogation at the office. Hastings succeed in bringing Espsito to confess the murder by taunting Espsito and hurting Espsito's macho pride. Justice seems served however, barely a year later, Gmez is released by a spiteful Romano, who is now working for a government agency. Amid increasing political violence, Gmez is set to work as a hitman for the farright wing of the Peronist party. Espsito finds Sandoval shot dead upon arriving home Sandoval used to pass the night at the house of Sandoval's coworker, due to endless arguments with coworker's wife about coworker's drink problems. Espsito presumes, and imagines, that Sandoval was killed by hitmen sent after himself, perhaps under Romano's orders, and that Sandoval posed as Espsito and sacrificed Sandoval's life for Espsito's friend. A budding romance between Benjamn and Irene the latter then recently married is cut short by Sandoval's death and Espsito's ultimate decision to exile himself deep within the countryside, with the help of some of Irene's relatives. Here the movie makes a definite stop in 1999. After coming back from exile in 1985, Espsito returned to an uneventful career in Buenos Aires until Espsito's retirement. Haunted by the past, Espsito's determined to write down Espsito's story in novel form. Espsito presents the framework to Irene, still married and with children. Irene remains resentful and hardened from children sudden departure 24 years earlier, and for apparently never having had Irene feelings returned by Espsito. Espsito drives to Chivilcoy to meet Morales, the widower, who has taken to a quiet life and gradually let go of Morales's obsession with the murder case. Espsito promises Espsito that Espsito will not rest until Espsito can put the convict once again in jail. A hesitant Morales then confesses to having killed Gmez many years ago, having kidnapped Gmez and shot Morales in the trunk of Morales's car. A disturbed Espsito leaves, but upon thinking over certain facts, secretly returns to Morales's house. Sneaking inside, Espsito is shocked to find that Morales has a makeshift cell in Morales's home and that Morales has kept Gmez chained inside for over 24 years as punishment for Morales's wife's death. Espsito kept Espsito alive by feeding Espsito and tending to Espsito, but not once in 24 years talking to Espsito nor letting Espsito out. Morales repeats what Espsito had mantained in front of Espsito back to 1974 that, instead of a death sentence, Espsito believes the boredom of a meaningless life in jail to be true justice. Espsito leaves. Espsito pays a visit to Sandoval's grave. Knowing that Gmez will never be a free man again, man finally comes to terms with man's life. man visits Irene one more time, where man finally responds to Irene feelings. themselves love rekindled, Their smilingly shut themselves in Irene office.