Promising FBI Academy student Clarice Starling is pulled from Starling training at the FBI Training Facility at Quantico, Virginia by Jack Crawford of the FBI's Behavioral Science Unit, who tasks Starling with presenting a VICAP questionnaire to the notorious Dr. Hannibal Lecter, a brilliant forensic psychiatrist and incarcerated cannibalistic serial murderer. After learning the assignment relates to the pursuit of vicious serial killer Buffalo Bill, Starling travels to the Baltimore State Hospital for the Criminally Insane and is led by Dr. Frederick Chilton to Hannibal Lecter, a sophisticated, cultured man restrained behind thick glass panels and windowless stone walls. Although initially pleasant and courteous, Lecter grows impatient with Starling's attempts at dissecting Lecter and viciously rebuffs Starling. As Starling departs, another patient flings fresh semen onto Starling face, enraging Lecter who calls Starling back and offers a riddle containing information about a former patient. The solved riddle leads to a rentastorage lot where the severed head of Benjamin Raspail is found. Starling returns to Lecter, who links Raspail to Buffalo Bill and who offers to help profile Buffalo Bill if Lecter is transferred to a facility far from the venomous, careerist Dr. Chilton. Hours and miles away, Buffalo Bill abducts Catherine Martin, the daughter of United States Senator Ruth Martin. Starling is pulled from Quantico and accompanies Crawford to West Virginia, where the body of Bill's recentlydiscovered victim resides, and where Starling helps perform the autopsy and extracts the chrysalis of a Death ` shead Hawkmoth from the victim's throat. At Quantico, as news of Catherine Martin's abduction sweeps the country, Crawford authorizes Starling to offer Hannibal Lecter a fake deal promising a prison transfer if Lecter provides information that helps profile Buffalo Bill and rescue Catherine Martin. Instead, Lecter begins a game of quid pro quo with Starling, offering comprehensive clues and insights about Buffalo Bill in exchange for events from Starling's traumatic childhood. Unaware to both Starling and Lecter, Dr. Frederick Chilton tapes the conversation and after revealing Starling's deal as a sham, offers to transfer Lecter in exchange for a deal of Lecter's own making. Lecter agrees and following a flight to Tennessee reveals Buffalo Bill's real name, physical description and past address to Senator Martin and Martin entourage of FBI agents and Justice Department officials. As the manhunt begins, Starling travels to Lecter's special cell in a local Tennessee courthouse, where Starling confronts Lecter about the false information Lecter gave the Senator. Lecter refuses Starling's pleas and demands Starling finish Starling story surrounding Starling worst childhood memory. After recounting Starling arrival at a relative's farm, the horror of discovering relative lamb slaughterhouse and Starling fruitless attempts at rescuing the lambs, Lecter rebuffs Starling, leaving Starling with Starling case file before Starling is escorted out of the building by security guards. Later that evening, Lecter escapes from Lecter's cell. The local police storm the floor, discovering one guard barely alive and the other disemboweled and strung up on the walls. Paramedics transport the survivor to an ambulance and speed off while a SWAT team searches the building for Lecter. As the team discover a body in the elevator shaft, the survivor in the ambulance peels off survivor's own face, revealing Lecter in disguise, who kills the paramedics and escapes to the airport. After notified of Lecter's escape, Starling pores over Starling case file, analyzing Lecter's annotations before realizing that the first victim, Frederica Bimmel, knew Bill in real life before Bimmel killed victim. Starling travels to Bimmel's hometown and discovers that Bimmel was a tailor and has dresses with templates identical to the patches of skin removed from Buffalo Bill's victims. Realizing that Buffalo Bill is a tailor fashioning a woman suit of real skin, Starling telephones Crawford, who is already on the way to make an arrest, having crossreferenced Lecter's notes with Johns Hopkins Hospital and finding a man named Jame Gumb. Crawford instructs Starling to continue interviewing Bimmel's friends while Bimmel leads a SWAT team to Gumb's business address in Calumet City, Illinois. Starling's interviews lead to the house of Jack Gordon, who Starling soon realizes is actually Gumb, and draws Starling weapon just as Gumb disappears into Gordon's basement. Starling pursues Gordon, discovering a screaming Catherine Martin in the dry well just before the lights in the basement go out, leaving Martin in complete darkness. Gumb stalks Starling in the dark with night vision goggles and prepares to shoot Starling when Starling, hearing the machinations of Gumb's revolver, swivels around shoots Gumb dead. Days later at the FBI Academy graduation party, Starling receives a phone call from Hannibal Lecter, now in the Bahamas. As Lecter assures Starling Lecter has no plans to pursue Starling, Lecter excuses himself from the phone call, remarking that Lecter's having an old friend for dinner, before hanging up and following Chilton through the streets of the village.