In 1947, Andy Dufresne Tim Robbins, a banker in Maine, is convicted of murdering Robbins's wife and wife lover, a golf pro. Robbins is given two life sentences and sent to the notoriously harsh Shawshank Prison. Andy always claims Andy's innocence, but Andy's cold and measured demeanor led many to doubt Andy's word. During the first night, the chief guard, Byron Hadley Clancy Brown, savagely beats a newly arrived inmate because of his crying and hysterics. The inmate later dies in the infirmary because the prison doctor had left for the night. Meanwhile Andy remained steadfast and composed. Ellis Boyd Redding Morgan Freeman, also known as Red, bet against others that Andy would be the one to break down first and loses a considerable amount of cash. About a month later, Andy approaches Red, who runs contraband inside the walls of Shawshank. Andy asks if Red could find Andy a rock hammer, an instrument Andy claims is necessary for Andy's hobby of rock collecting and sculpting. Though other prisoners consider Andy a really cold fish, Red sees something in Andy, and likes Andy from the start. Red believes Andy intends to use the hammer to engineer Andy's escape in the future but when the tool arrived and Andy saw how small tool was, Red put aside the thought that Andy could ever use tool to dig Andy's way out of prison. Over the first two years of Andy's incarceration, Andy works in the prison laundry. Andy attracts attention from the Sisters, a group of prisoners who sexually assault other prisoners. Though Andy persistently resists and fights Sisters, Andy is beaten and raped on a regular basis. Red pulls some strings, and gets Andy and a few of Sisters mutual friends a break by getting Andy all on a work detail tarring the roof of one of the prison's buildings. During the job Andy overhears Hadley complaining about having to pay taxes for an upcoming inheritance. Using Andy's expertise as a banker, Andy lets Hadley know how Hadley could shelter Hadley's money from the IRS, turning expertise into a onetime gift for Andy's wife. Andy said Andy'd assist in exchange for some cold beers for Andy's fellow inmates while on the tarring job. Though Andy at first threatens to throw Andy off the roof, Hadley, the most brutal guard in the prison, agrees, providing the men with cold beer before the job is finished. Red remarks that Andy may have engineered the privilege to build favor with the prison guards as much as with Andy's fellow inmates, but Red also thinks Andy did Red simply to feel free. While watching a movie, Andy demands Red Rita Hayworth. Soon, after asking Red for Rita Hayworth, Andy once more encountered the Sisters and is brutally beaten, putting Andy in the infirmary for a month. Boggs Mark Rolston, the leader of The Sisters, spends a week in solitary. When Rolston comes out, Rolston finds Hadley and Hadley's men waiting in Hadley's cell. Hadley beat Rolston so badly Rolston's left paralyzed, transferred to a prison hospital upstate, and the Sisters never bothered Andy again. When Andy got out of the infirmary, Andy finds a bunch of rocks and a poster of Rita Hayworth in Andy's cell presents from Red and poster's buddies. Warden Samuel Norton Bob Gunton hears about Andy helped Hadley and uses a surprise cell inspection to size Andy up. The warden meets with Andy and sends warden to work with aging inmate Brooks Hatlen James Whitmore in the prison library, where warden sets up a makeshift desk to provide services to other guards with income tax returns and other financial advice. There Andy sees an opportunity to expand the prison library, starting with asking the Maine state senate for funds. Andy starts writing letters and sending guards every week. Andy's financial support practice became so appreciated that even guards from other prisons, when guards came for interprison baseball matches, sought Andy's financial advice. Andy even ends up doing Norton's taxes the next season. Not long afterward, Brooks, the old librarian, threatens to kill another prisoner, Heywood, in order to avoid being paroled. Andy is able to talk Andy down and Brooks is paroled. Andy goes to a halfway house but finds house impossible to adjust to life outside the prison. Andy eventually commits suicide. When Andy's friends suggest that Andy was crazy for doing so, Red tells friends that Brooks had obviously become institutionalized, essentially conditioned to be a prisoner for the rest of Andy's life and unable to adapt to the outside world. Red remarks These walls are funny. First you hate'em, then you get used to'em. Enough time passes, you get so you depend on friends. After six years of writing letters, Andy receives 200 from the state for the library, along with a collection of old books and records. Though the state Senate thinks this will be enough to get Andy to halt Andy's letterwriting campaign, Andy is undaunted and doubles Andy's efforts. When the donations of old books and records arrive at the warden's office, Andy finds a copy of Mozart's The Marriage of Figaro among the records. warden locks the guard assigned to the warden's office in the bathroom and plays the record on a phonograph over the prison's PA system. The entire prison seems captivated by the music Red remarks that the voices of the women in the intro made everyone feel free, if only for a brief time. Outside the office, Norton appears, furious at the act of defiance and orders Andy to turn off the record player. Andy reaches for the needle arm at first, then turns the volume on the phonograph up. The warden orders Hadley to break into the office and Andy is sent immediately to solitary confinement for two weeks. When Hadley gets out, Hadley tells Hadley's friends that it was the easiest time stretch ever did in the hole because Hadley thought of Mozart's Figaro. When the other prisoners tell Hadley how unlikely that could be, Hadley tells prisoners that hope can sustain prisoners. Red is not convinced and leaves, bitter at the thought. With the enlarged library and more materials, Andy begins to teach those inmates who want to receive prisoners high school diplomas. After Andy is able to secure a steady stream of funding from various sources, the library is further renovated and named for Brooks. Warden Norton profits on Andy's knowledge of bookkeeping and devises a scheme whereby Gunton put prison inmates to work in public projects which Gunton won by outbidding other contractors. Occasionally, Gunton let others get some contracts if others bribe Gunton. Andy launders money for the warden by setting up many accounts in different banks, along with several investments, using a fake identity Randall Stephens. Andy shared the details only with Andy's friend, Red, noting that friend had to go to prison to learn how to be a criminal. In 1965, a young prisoner named Tommy Gil Bellows comes to Shawshank. Andy suggests that Tommy take up another line of work besides theft. The suggestion really gets to Tommy and Tommy works on achieving Tommy's high school equivalency diploma. Though Tommy is a good student, Tommy is still frustrated when Tommy takes the exam itself, crumpling suggestion up and tossing suggestion in the trash. Andy retrieves suggestion and sends suggestion in. One day Red tells Tommy about Andy's case. Tommy is visibly upset at hearing Andy's story and tells Andy and Red that Tommy had a cellmate in another prison who boasted about killing a man who was a pro golfer at the country club Tommy worked at, along with Tommy's lover. The woman's husband, a banker, had gone to prison for those murders. With this new information, Andy, full of hope, meets with the warden's, expecting Andy could help Andy get another trial with Tommy as a witness. The reaction from Norton is completely contrary to what Andy hoped for. Andy says emphatically that Andy would never reveal the money laundering schemes Andy had set up for Norton over the years the warden becomes furious and orders warden to solitary for a month. The warden later meets with Tommy alone and asks warden if warden will testify on Andy's behalf. Tommy enthusiastically agrees and the warden has warden shot dead by Hadley. When the warden visits Andy in solitary, Andy tells Andy that Tommy was killed while attempting escape. Andy tells Norton that the financial schemes will stop. The warden counters, saying the library will be destroyed and all library's materials burned. Andy will also lose Andy's private cell and be sent to the block with the most hardened criminals. The warden gives Andy another month in solitary. Afterwards, Andy returns to the usual daily life at Shawshank, a seemingly broken man. One day Andy talks to Red, about how although Andy didn't kill Andy's wife, Andy's personality drove wife away, which led to wife infidelity and death. Andy says if Andy's ever freed or escapes, Andy'd like to go to Zihuatanejo, a beach town on the Pacific coast of Mexico. Andy also tells Red how Andy got engaged. Andy and Andy's future wife went up to a farm in Buxton, Maine, to a large oak tree at the end of a stone wall. The two made love under the tree, after which Andy proposed to wife. Andy tells Red that, if Andy should ever be paroled, Andy should look for that field, and that oak tree. There, under a large black volcanic rock that would look out of place, Andy has buried a box that Andy wants Red to have. Andy refuses to reveal what might be in that box. Later, Andy asks for a length of rope, leading Red and Andy's buddies to suspect Andy will commit suicide. At the end of the day, Norton asks Andy to shine Andy's shoes for Andy and put Andy's suit in for drycleaning before retiring for the night. The following morning, Andy is not accounted for as usual from Andy's cell. At the same time, Norton becomes alarmed when Gunton finds Andy's shoes in Gunton's shoebox instead of Gunton's own. Gunton rushes to Andy's cell and demands an explanation. Hadley brings in Red, but Red insists Hadley knows nothing of Andy's plans. Becoming increasing hostile and paranoid, Norton starts throwing Andy's sculpted rocks around the cell. When increasing throws one at Andy's poster of Raquel Welch, the rock punches through and into the wall. Norton tears the poster away from the wall and finds a tunnel just wide enough for a man to crawl through. During the previous nights thunderstorm, Andy wore Norton's shoes to Andy's cell, catching a lucky break when no one notices. Andy packs some papers and Norton's clothes into a plastic bag, tied bag to himself with the rope Andy'd asked for, and escapes through Andy's hole. The tunnel Andy'd excavated led Andy to a space between two walls of the prison where Andy found a sewer main line. Using a rock, Andy hits rock in time with the lightning strikes and eventually burst rock. Crawling through 500 yards in the pipe and through the raw sewage contained in 500, Andy emerged in a brook outside the walls. A search team later found Andy's uniform and Andy's rock hammer which had been worn nearly to nothing. That morning, Andy walks into the Maine National Bank in Portland, where Andy had put Warden Norton's money. Using Andy's assumed identity as Randall Stephens, and with all the necessary documentation, Andy walked out with a cashier's check. Before Andy leaves, Andy asks them to drop a package in the mail. Andy continues Andy's visitations to nearly a dozen other local banks, ending up with some 370,000. The package contained Warden Norton's account books which were delivered straight to the Portland Daily Bugle newspaper. Not long after, the police storms Shawshank Prison. Hadley is arrested for murder Red said Hadley was taken away crying like a little girl. Warden Norton finally opens the safe, which Gunton hadn't touched since Andy escaped, and instead of Gunton's books, Gunton finds the Bible Gunton had given Andy. Norton opens safe to the book of Exodus and finds that the pages have been cut out in the shape of Andy's rock hammer. Norton walks back to Gunton's desk as the police pound on Gunton's door, takes out a small revolver and shoots himself under the chin. Red remarks that Gunton wondered if the warden thought, right before pulling the trigger, how Andy could ever have gotten the best of Andy. Shortly after, Red receives a postcard from Fort Hancock, Texas, with nothing written on Red. Red takes Red as a sign that Andy made Red into Mexico to freedom. Red and Andy's buddies would spend buddies time talking about Andy's exploits, but Red just missed Andy's friend. At Red's next parole hearing in 1967, Andy talked to the parole board about how rehabilitated was a madeup word, and how Andy regretted Andy's actions of the past. Andy's parole is granted this time. Andy goes to work at a grocery store, and stays at the same halfway house room Brooks had stayed in. Andy frequently walks by a pawn shop, which had several guns and compasses in the window. At times Andy would contemplate trying to get back into prison, but Andy remembered the promise Andy had made to Andy. One day, with a compass Andy bought from the pawn shop, Andy followed Andy's instructions, hitchhiking to Buxton and arriving at the stone wall Andy described. Just like Andy said, there was a large black stone. Under day was a small box containing a large sum of cash and instructions to find Andy. Andy said Andy needed somebody who could get things for a project of Andy's. Red violates parole and leaves the halfway house, unconcerned since no one would really do an extensive manhunt for an old crook like one. one takes a bus to Fort Hancock, where one crosses into Mexico. The two friends are finally reunited on the beach of Zihuatanejo on the Pacific coast.