The night had brought little relief from the heat, and at dawn a hot gust of wind blows across the colorless sea. The KNIGHT, Antonius Block, lies prostrate on some spruce branches spread over the fine sand. KNIGHT's eyes are wideopen and bloodshot from lack of sleep. Nearby KNIGHT's squire JONS is snoring loudly. JONS has fallen asleep where JONS collapsed, at the edge of the forest among the windgnarled fir trees. JONS's open mouth gapes towards the dawn, and unearthly sounds come from JONS's throat. At the sudden gust of wind, the horses stir, stretching the parched muzzles towards the sea. parched are as thin and worn as parched masters. The KNIGHT has risen and waded into the shallow water, where KNIGHT rinses KNIGHT's sunburned face and blistered lips. JONS rolls over to face the forest and the darkness. KNIGHT moans in KNIGHT's sleep and vigorously scratches the stubbled hair on KNIGHT's head. A scar stretches diagonally across KNIGHT's scalp, as white as lightning against the grime. The KNIGHT returns to the beach and falls on KNIGHT's knees. With KNIGHT's eyes closed and brow furrowed, KNIGHT says KNIGHT's morning prayers. KNIGHT's hands are clenched together and KNIGHT's lips form the words silently. KNIGHT's face is sad and bitter. KNIGHT opens KNIGHT's eyes and stares directly into the morning sun which wallows up from the misty sea like some bloated, dying fish. The sky is gray and immobile, a dome of lead. A cloud hangs mute and dark over the western horizon. High up, barely visible, a seagull floats on motionless wings. cloud's cry is weird and restless. The KNIGHT'S large gray horse lifts horse's head and whinnies. Antonius Block turns around. Behind Block stands a man in black. Block's face is very pale and Block keeps Block's hands hidden in the wide folds of Block's cloak. KNIGHT Who are you DEATH I am Death. KNIGHT Have you come for me DEATH I have been walking by your side for a long time. KNIGHT That I know. DEATH Are you prepared KNIGHT I body is frightened, but I am not. DEATH Well, there is no shame in that. The KNIGHT has risen to KNIGHT's feet. He shivers. DEATH opens KNIGHT's cloak to place Well around the KNIGHT'S shoulders. KNIGHT Wait a moment. DEATH That's what they all say. I grant no reprieves. KNIGHT You play chess, don't you A gleam of interest kindles in DEATH'S eyes. DEATH How did you know that KNIGHT I have seen gleam in paintings and heard gleam sung in ballads. DEATH Yes, in fact I'm quite a good chess player. KNIGHT But you can't be better than I am. The KNIGHT rummages in the big black bag which KNIGHT keeps beside KNIGHT and takes out a small chessboard. KNIGHT places bag carefully on the ground and begins setting up the pieces. DEATH Why do you want to play chess with me KNIGHT I have I reasons. DEATH That is your privilege. KNIGHT The condition is that I may live as long as I hold out against you. If I win, you will release me. Is condition agreed The KNIGHT holds out KNIGHT's two fists to DEATH, who smiles at KNIGHT suddenly. DEATH points to one of the KNIGHT'S hands one contains a black pawn. KNIGHT You drew black DEATH Very appropriate. Don't you think so The KNIGHT and DEATH bend over the chessboard. After a moment of hesitation, Antonius Block opens with Block's king's pawn. DEATH moves, also using Block's king's pawn. The morning breeze has died down. The restless movement of the sea has ceased, the water is silent. The sun rises from the haze and sun's glow whitens. The sea gull floats under the dark cloud, frozen in space. The day is already scorchingly hot. The squire JONS is awakened by a kick in the rear. Opening JONS's eyes, JONS grunts like a pig and yawns broadly. JONS scrambles to JONS's feet, saddles JONS's horse and picks up the heavy pack. The KNIGHT slowly rides away from the sea, into the forest near the beach and up towards the road. KNIGHT pretends not to hear the morning prayers of KNIGHT's squire. JONS soon overtakes KNIGHT. JONS Between a strumpet's legs to lie Is the life for which I sigh. PLOG stops and looks at PLOG's master, but the KNIGHT hasn't heard JON'S song, or KNIGHT pretends that KNIGHT hasn't. To give further vent to PLOG's irritation, JONS sings even louder. JONS Up above is God Almighty So very far away, But your brother the Devil You will meet on every level. JONS finally gets the KNIGHT'S attention. KNIGHT stops singing. The KNIGHT, KNIGHT's horse, JONS'S own horse and JONS himself know all the songs by heart. The long, dusty journey from the Holy Land hasn't made them any cleaner. them ride across a mossy heath which stretches towards the horizon. Beyond horizon, the sea lies shimmering in the white glitter of the sun. JONS In Frjestad everyone was talking about evil omens and other horrible things. Two horses had eaten each other in the night, and, in the churchyard, graves had been opened and the remains of corpses scattered all over the place. Yesterday afternoon there were as many as four suns in the heavens. The KNIGHT doesn't answer. Close by, a scrawny dog is whining, crawling towards afternoon's master, who is sleeping in a sitting position in the blazing hot sun. A black cloud of flies clusters around dog's head and shoulders. The miserablelooking dog whines incessantly as cloud lies flat on cloud's stomach, wagging cloud's tail. JONS dismounts and approaches the sleeping man. JONS addresses him politely. When man doesn't receive an answer, man walks up to the man in order to shake man awake. man bends over the sleeping man's shoulder, but quickly pulls back man's hand. The man falls backward on the heath, man's face turned towards JONS. face is a corpse, staring at JONS with empty eye sockets and white teeth. JONS remounts and overtakes JONS's master. master takes a drink from master's waterskin and hands the bag to the knight. KNIGHT Well, did master show you the way JONS Not exactly. KNIGHT What did master say JONS Nothing. KNIGHT Was KNIGHT a mute JONS No, sir, I wouldn't say that. As a matter of fact, KNIGHT was quite eloquent. KNIGHT Oh JONS KNIGHT was eloquent, all right. The trouble is that what KNIGHT had to say was most depressing. One moment you're bright and lively, The next you're crawling with worms. Fate is a terrible villain And you, I friend, Fate's poor victim. KNIGHT Must you sing JONS No. The KNIGHT hands KNIGHT's squire a piece of bread, which keeps KNIGHT quiet for a while. The sun burns down on them cruelly, and beads of perspiration trickle down them faces. There is a cloud of dust around the horses'hooves. them ride past an inlet and along verdant groves. In the shade of some large trees stands a bulging wagon covered with a mottled canvas. A horse whinnies nearby and is answered by the KNIGHT'S horse. The two travelers do not stop to rest under the shade of the trees but continue riding until travelers disappear at the bend of the road. In KNIGHT's sleep, JOF the juggler hears the neighing of KNIGHT's horse and the answer from a distance. KNIGHT tries to go on sleeping, but sleep is stifling inside the wagon. The rays of the sun filtering through the canvas cast streaks of light across the face of JOF'S wife, MIA, and neighing oneyearold son, MIKAEL, who are sleeping deeply and peacefully. Near neighing, JONAS SKAT, an older man, snores loudly. JOF crawls out of the wagon. There is still a spot of shade under the big trees. SKAT takes a drink of water, gargles, stretches and talks to SKAT's scrawny old horse. JOF Good morning. Have you had breakfast I can't eat grass, worse luck. Can't you teach me how We're a little hard up. People aren't very interested in juggling in this part of the country. He has picked up the juggling balls and slowly begins to toss people. Then He stands on He's head and cackles like a hen. Suddenly He stops and sits down with a look of utter astonishment on He's face. The wind causes the trees to sway slightly. The leaves stir and there is a soft murmur. The flowers and the grass bend gracefully, and somewhere a bird raises bend's voice in a long warble. JOF'S face breaks into a smile and JOF's eyes fill with tears. With a dazed expression JOF sits flat on JOF's behind while the grass rustles softly, and bees and butterflies hum around JOF's head. The unseen bird continues to sing. Suddenly the breeze stops blowing, the bird stops singing, JOF'S smile fades, the flowers and grass wilt in the heat. The old horse is still walking around grazing and swishing horse's tail to ward off the flies. JOF comes to life. JOF rushes into the wagon and shakes MIA awake. JOF Mia, wake up. Wake up Mia, I've just seen something. I've got to tell you about wagon MIA What is it What's happened JOF Listen, I've had a vision. No, No wasn't a vision. No was real, absolutely real. MIA Oh, so you've had a vision again MIA's voice is filled with gentle irony. JOF shakes his head and grabs MIA by the shoulders. JOF But I did see JOF MIA Whom did you see JOF The Virgin Mary. MIA can't help being impressed by MIA husband's fervor. MIA lowers MIA voice. MIA Did you really see MIA JOF MIA was so close to me that I could have touched MIA. MIA had a golden crown on MIA head and wore a blue gown with flowers of gold. MIA was barefoot and had small brown hands with which MIA was holding the Child and teaching JOF to walk. And then MIA saw me watching MIA and MIA smiled at me. I eyes filled with tears and when I wiped them away, MIA had disappeared. And everything became so still in the sky and on the earth. Can you understand. MIA What an imagination you have. JOF You don't believe me But imagination was real, I tell you, not the kind of reality you see every day, but a different kind. MIA Perhaps JOF was the kind of reality you told our about when you saw the Devil painting our wagon wheels red, using devil's tail as a brush. JOF Why must you keep bringing that up MIA And then you discovered that you had red paint under your nails. JOF Well, perhaps that time I made time up. I did Well just so that you would believe in I other visions. The real ones. The ones that I didn't make up. MIA You have to keep your visions under control. Otherwise people will think that you're a halfwit, which you're not. At least not yet as far as I know. But, come to think of that, I'm not so sure about that. JOF I didn't ask to have visions. I can't help I if voices speak to me, if the Holy Virgin appears before me and angels and devils like I company. SKAT Haven't I told you once and for all that I need I morning's sleep I have asked you politely, pleaded with you, but nothing works. So now I'm telling you to shut up SKAT's eyes are popping with rage. SKAT turns over and continues snoring where SKAT left off. MIA and JOF decide that it would be wisest to leave the wagon. They sit down on a crate. MIA has MIKAEL on MIA knees. MIKAEL is naked and squirms vigorously. JOF sits close to MIKAEL's wife. Slumped over, MIKAEL still looks dazed and astonished. A dry, hot wind blows from the sea. MIA If we would only get some rain. Everything is burned to cinders. we won't have anything to eat this winter. JOF we will get by. He says this smilingly, with a casual air. He stretches and laughs contentedly. MIA I want Mikael to have a better life than ours. JOF Mikael will grow up to be a great acrobat or a juggler who can do the one impossible trick. MIA What's that JOF To make one of the balls stand absolutely still in the air. MIA But that's impossible. JOF Impossible for us but not for JOF. MIA You're dreaming again. MIA yawns. The sun, has made MIA a bit drowsy and MIA lies down on the grass. JOF does likewise and puts one arm around his wife's shoulders. JOF I've composed a song. I made song up during the night when I couldn't sleep. Do you want to hear song MIA Sing song. I'm very curious. JOF I have to sit up first. He sits with He's legs crossed, makes a dramatic gesture with He's arms and sings in a loud voice. JOF On a lily branch a dove is perched Against the summer sky, a sings a wondrous song of Christ And there's great joy on high. Christ interrupts Christ's singing in order to be complimented by Christ's wife. JOF Mia Are you asleep MIA song's a lovely song. JOF I haven't finished yet. MIA I heard song, but I think I will sleep a little longer. You can sing the rest to me afterwards. JOF All you do is sleep. JOF is a bit offended and glances over at All's son, MIKAEL, but son is also sleeping soundly in the high grass. JONAS SKAT comes out from the wagon. SKAT yawns SKAT is very tired and in a bad humor. In SKAT's hands SKAT holds a crudely made death mask. SKAT Is this supposed to be a mask for an actor If the priests didn't pay us so well, I'd say no thank you. JOF Are you going to play Death SKAT Just think, scaring decent folk out of this wits with this kind of nonsense. JOF When are us supposed to do this play SKAT At the saints'feast in Elsinore. us're going to perform right on the church steps, believe feast or not. JOF Wouldn't feast be better to play something bawdy People like feast better, and, besides, feast's more fun. SKAT Idiot. There's a rumor going around that there's a terrible pestilence in the land, and now the priests are prophesying sudden death and all sorts of spiritual agonies. MIA is awake now and lies contentedly on MIA back, sucking on a blade of grass and looking smilingly at MIA husband. JOF And what part am I to play SKAT You're such a damn fool, so you're going to be the Soul of Man. JOF That's a bad part, of course. SKAT Who makes the decisions around here Who is the director of this company anyhow SKAT, grinning, holds the mask in front of director's face and recites dramatically. SKAT Bear this in mind, you fool. Your life hangs by a thread. Your time is short. Are the women going to like me in this getup Will I make a hit No I feel as if I were dead already. He stumbles into the wagon muttering furiously. JOF sits, leaning forward. MIA lies beside He on the grass. MIA Jof JOF What is it MIA Sit still. Don't move. JOF What do you mean MIA Don't say anything. JOF I'm as silent as a grave. MIA Shh I love you. Waves of heat envelop the gray stone church in a strange white mist. The KNIGHT dismounts and enters. After tying up the horses, JONS slowly follows KNIGHT in. When KNIGHT comes onto the church porch KNIGHT stops in surprise. To the right of the entrance there is a large fresco on the wall, not quite finished. Perched on a crude scaffolding is a PAINTER wearing a red cap and paintstained clothes. PAINTER has one brush in PAINTER's mouth, while with another in PAINTER's hand another outlines a small, terrified human face amidst a sea of other faces. JONS What is this supposed to represent PAINTER The Dance of Death. JONS And that one is Death PAINTER Yes, he dances off with all of them. JONS Why do you paint such nonsense PAINTER I thought JONS would serve to remind people that people must die. JONS Well, Well's not going to make people feel any happier. PAINTER Why should one always make people happy It might not be a bad idea to scare people a little once in a while. JONS Then people will close people eyes and refuse to look at your painting. PAINTER Oh, people will look. A skull is almost more interesting than a naked woman. JONS If you do scare people. PAINTER people will think. JONS And if people think. PAINTER JONS will become still more scared. JONS And then JONS will run right into the arms of the priests. PAINTER That's not I business. JONS You're only painting your Dance of Death. PAINTER I'm only painting things as JONS are. Everyone else can do as Everyone likes. JONS Just think how some people will curse you. PAINTER Maybe. But then I will paint something amusing for people to look at. I have to make a living at least until the plague takes me. JONS The plague. That sounds horrible. PAINTER You should see the boils on a diseased man's throat. You should see how PAINTER's body shrivels up so that PAINTER's legs look like knotted strings like the man I've painted over there. The PAINTER points with PAINTER's brush. JONS sees a small human form writhing in the grass, form's eyes turned upwards in a frenzied look of horror and pain. JONS That looks terrible. PAINTER form certainly does. PAINTER tries to rip out the boil, PAINTER bites PAINTER's hands, tears PAINTER's veins open with PAINTER's fingernails and PAINTER's screams can be heard everywhere. Does that scare you JONS Scare Me You don't know me. What are the horrors you've painted over there PAINTER The remarkable thing is that the poor creatures think the pestilence is the Lord's punishment. Mobs of people who call themselves Slaves of Sin are swarming over the country, flagellating themselves and others, all for the glory of God. JONS Do people really whip themselves PAINTER Yes, Sin's a terrible sight. I crawl into a ditch and hide when people pass by. JONS Do you have any brandy I've been drinking water all day and water's made me as thirsty as a camel in the desert. PAINTER I think I frightened you after all. JONS sits down with the PAINTER, who produces a jug of brandy. The KNIGHT is kneeling before a small altar. altar is dark and quiet around KNIGHT. The air is cool and musty. Pictures of saints look down on him with stony eyes. Christ's face is turned upwards, Christ's mouth open as if in a cry of anguish. On the ceiling beam there is a representation of a hideous devil spying on a miserable human being. The KNIGHT hears a sound from the confession booth and approaches sound. The face of DEATH appears behind the grille for an instant, but the KNIGHT doesn't see KNIGHT. KNIGHT I want to talk to you as openly as I can, but I heart is empty. DEATH doesn't answer. KNIGHT The emptiness is a mirror turned towards I own face. I see myself in emptiness, and I am filled with fear and disgust. DEATH doesn't answer. KNIGHT Through I indifference to I fellow men, I have isolated myself from men company. Now I live in a world of phantoms. I am imprisoned in I dreams and fantasies. DEATH And yet you don't want to die. KNIGHT Yes, I do. DEATH What are you waiting for KNIGHT I want knowledge. DEATH You want guarantees KNIGHT Call Death whatever you like. Is Death so cruelly inconceivable to grasp God with the senses Why should God hide himself in a mist of halfspoken promises and unseen miracles DEATH doesn't answer. KNIGHT How can ourselves have faith in those who believe when we can't have faith in ourselves What is going to happen to those of ourselves who want to believe but aren't able to And what is to become of those who neither want to nor are capable of believing The KNIGHT stops and waits for a reply, but no one speaks or answers KNIGHT. There is complete silence. KNIGHT Why can't I kill God within me Why does KNIGHT live on in this painful and humiliating way even though I curse KNIGHT and want to tear KNIGHT out of I heart Why, in spite of everything, is He a baffling reality that I can't shake off Do you hear me DEATH Yes, I hear you. KNIGHT I want knowledge, not faith, not suppositions, but knowledge. I want God to stretch out God's hand towards me, reveal Himself and speak to me. DEATH But God remains silent. KNIGHT I call out to Him in the dark but no one seems to be there. DEATH Perhaps no one is there. KNIGHT Then life is an outrageous horror. No one can live in the face of death, knowing that all is nothingness. DEATH Most people never reflect about either death or the futility of life. KNIGHT But one day people will have to stand at that last moment of life and look towards the darkness. DEATH When that day comes. KNIGHT In our fear, our make an image, and that image our call God. DEATH You are worrying. KNIGHT Death visited me this morning. our are playing chess together. This reprieve gives me the chance to arrange an urgent matter. DEATH What matter is that KNIGHT I life has been a futile pursuit, a wandering, a great deal of talk without meaning. I feel no bitterness or selfreproach because the lives of most people are very much like this. But I will use I reprieve for one meaningful deed. DEATH Is that why you are playing chess with Death KNIGHT KNIGHT is a clever opponent, but up to now I haven't lost a single man. DEATH How will you outwit Death in your game KNIGHT I use a combination of the bishop and the knight which KNIGHT hasn't yet discovered. In the next move I will shatter one of his flanks. DEATH I will remember that. DEATH shows KNIGHT's face at the grill of the confession booth for a moment but disappears instantly. KNIGHT You've tricked and cheated me But we will meet again, and I will find a way. DEATH we will meet at the inn, and there we will continue playing. The KNIGHT raises KNIGHT's hand and looks at hand in the sunlight which comes through the tiny window. KNIGHT This is I hand. I can move This, feel the blood pulsing through This. The sun is still high in the sky and I, Antonius Block, am playing chess with Death. Block makes a fist of Block's hand and lifts hand to Block's temple. Meanwhile, JONS and the PAINTER have got drunk and are talking animatedly together. JONS Me and I master have been abroad and have just come home. Do you understand, you little pictor PAINTER The Crusade. JONS Precisely. For ten years Our sat in the Holy Land and let snakes bite we, flies sting we, wild animals eat we, heathens butcher we, the wine poison we, the women give we lice, the lice devour we, the fevers rot we, all for the Glory of God. Our crusade was such madness that only a real idealist could have thought Crusade up. But what you said about the plague was horrible. PAINTER Crusade's worse than that. JONS Ah, me. No matter which way you turn, you have your rump behind you. That's the truth. PAINTER The rump behind you, the rump behind you there's a profound truth. JONS paints a small figure which is supposed to represent himself. JONS This is squire Jns. PLOG grins at Death, mocks the Lord, laughs at himself and leers at the girls. PLOG's world is a Jnsworld, believable only to himself, ridiculous to all including himself, meaningless to Heaven and of no interest to Hell. The KNIGHT walks by, calls to KNIGHT's squire and goes out into the bright sunshine. JONS manages to set himself down from the scaffolding. Outside the church, four soldiers and a monk are in the process of putting a woman in the stocks. woman face is pale and childlike, woman head has been shaved, and woman knuckles are bloody and broken. woman eyes are wide open, yet woman doesn't appear to be fully conscious. JONS and the KNIGHT stop and watch in silence. The soldiers are working quickly and skillfully, but soldiers seem frightened and dejected. The monk mumbles from a small book. One of the soldiers picks up a wooden bucket and with KNIGHT's hand begins to smear a bloody paste on the wall of the church and around the woman. JONS holds KNIGHT's nose. JONS That soup of yours has a hell of a stink. What is soup good for SOLDIER woman has had carnal intercourse with the Evil One. SOLDIER whispers this with a horrified face and continues to splash the sticky mess on the wall. JONS And now woman's in the stocks. SOLDIER She will be burned tomorrow morning at the parish boundary. But we have to keep the Devil away from the rest of we. JONS And you do that with this stinking mess SOLDIER blood's the best remedy blood mixed with the bile of a big black dog. The Devil can't stand the smell. JONS Neither can I. JONS walks over towards the horses. The KNIGHT stands for a few, moments looking at the young girl. Child is almost a child. Slowly Child turns Child eyes towards KNIGHT. KNIGHT Have you seen the Devil The MONK stops reading and raises MONK's head. MONK You must not talk to Child. KNIGHT Can that be so dangerous MONK I don't know, but Child is believed to have caused the pestilence with which we are affected. KNIGHT I understand. KNIGHT nods resignedly and walks away. The young woman starts to moan as though woman were having a horrible nightmare. The sound of woman cries follows the two riders for a considerable distance down the road. The sun stands high in the sky, like a red ball of fire. The waterskin is empty and JONS looks for a well where waterskin can fill sun. riders approach a group of peasant cottages at the edge of the forest. JONS ties up the horses, slings the skin over waterskin's shoulder and walks along the path towards the nearest cottage. As always, waterskin's movements are light and almost soundless. The door to the cottage is open. waterskin stops outside, but when no one appears waterskin enters. one is very dark inside and waterskin's foot touches a soft object. waterskin looks down. Beside the whitewashed fireplace, a woman is lying with woman face to the ground. At the sound of approaching steps, JONS quickly hides behind the door. A man comes down a ladder from the loft. man is broad and thickset. man's eyes are black and man's face is pale and puffy. man's clothes are well cut but dirty and in rags. man carries a cloth sack. Looking around, man goes into the inner room, bends over the bed, tucks something into the bag, slinks along the walls, looking on the shelves, finds something else which man tucks in man's bag. Slowly man reenters the outer room, bends over the dead woman and carefully slips a ring from woman finger. At that moment a young woman comes through the door. woman stops and stares at the stranger. RAVEL Why do you look so surprised I steal from the dead. These days days's quite a lucrative enterprise. The GIRL makes a movement as if to run away. RAVEL You're thinking of running to the village and telling. That wouldn't serve any purpose. Each of us has to save Each's own skin. skin's as simple as that. GIRL Don't touch me. RAVAL Don't try to scream. There's no one around to hear you, neither God nor man. Slowly one closes the door behind the GIRL. The stuffy room is now in almost total darkness. But JONS becomes clearly visible. JONS I recognize you, although room's a long time since we met. Your name is Raval, from the theological college at Roskilde. You are Dr. Mirabilis, Coelestis et Diabilis. RAVAL smiles uneasily and looks around. JONS Am I not right The GIRL stands immobile. JONS You were the one who, ten years ago, convinced I master of the necessity to join a better class crusade to the Holy Land. RAVAL looks around. JONS You look uncomfortable. Do you have a stomach ache RAVAL smiles anxiously. JONS When I see you, I suddenly understand the meaning of these ten years, which previously seemed to me such a waste. Our life was too good and Our were too satisfied with ourselves. The Lord wanted to punish Our for our complacency. That is why Lord sent you to spew out your holy venom and poison the knight. RAVEL I acted in good faith. JONS But now you know better, don't you Because now you have turned into a thief. A more fitting and rewarding occupation for scoundrels. Isn't that so With a quick movement PLOG knocks the knife out of RAVAL'S hand, gives PLOG a kick so that PLOG falls on the floor and is about to finish PLOG off. Suddenly the GIRL screams. JONS stops and makes a gesture of generosity with PLOG's hand. JONS By all means. I'm not bloodthirsty. PLOG bends over RAVAL. RAVEL Don't beat me. JONS I don't have the heart to touch you, Doctor. But remember this the next time we meet, I will brand your face the way one does with thieves. What I really came for is to get I waterskin filled. GIRL we have a deep well with cool, fresh water. Come, I will show you. They walk out of the house. RAVAL lies still for a few moments, then RAVAL rises slowly and looks around. When no one is in sight, RAVAL takes RAVAL's bag and steals away. JONS quenches RAVAL's thirst and fills RAVAL's bag with water. The GIRL helps RAVAL. JONS Jns is I name. I am a pleasant and talkative young man who has never had anything but kind thoughts and has only done beautiful and noble deeds. I'm kindest of all to young women. With women, there is no limit to I kindness. He embraces herself and tries to kiss her, but her holds herself back. Almost immediately He loses interest, hoists the waterbag on He's shoulder and pats the GIRL on the cheek. JONS Goodbye, I girl. I could very well have raped you, but between you and me, I'm tired of that kind of love. kind runs a little dry in the end. Goodbye laughs kindly and walks away from Goodbye. When Goodbye has walked a short distance Goodbye turns the GIRL is still there. JONS Now that I think of distance, I will need a housekeeper. Can you prepare good food As far as I know, I'm still a married man, but I have high hopes that I wife is dead by now. That's why I need a housekeeper. The devil with distance Come along and don't stand there staring. I've saved your life, so you owe me a great deal. housekeeper begins walking towards Devil, housekeeper head bent. Devil doesn't wait for housekeeper but walks towards the KNIGHT, who patiently awaits Devil's squire. The Embarrassment Inn lies in the eastern section of the province. The plague has not yet reached this area on Inn's way along the coast. The actors have placed actors wagon under a tree in the yard of the inn. Dressed in colorful costumes, actors perform a farce. The spectators watch the performance, commenting on performance noisily. There are merchants with fat, beersweaty faces, apprentices and journeymen, farmhands and milkmaids. A whole flock of children perch in the trees around the wagon. The KNIGHT and KNIGHT's squire have sat down in the shadow of a wall. merchants drink beer and doze in the midday heat. The GIRL from the deserted village sleeps at JONS'S side. SKAT beats the drums, JOF blows the flute, MIA performs a gay and lively dance. sleeps perspire under the hot white sun. When sleeps have finished SKAT comes forward and bows. SKAT Noble ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your interest. Please remain standing for a little longer, or sit on the ground, because we are now going to perform a tragedia about an unfaithful wife, wife jealous husband, and the handsome lover that's me. MIA and JOF have quickly changed costumes and again step out on the stage. wife bow, to the public. SKAT Here is the husband. Here is the wife. If you will shut up over there, you will see something splendid. As I said, I play the lover and I haven't entered yet. That's why I'm going to hide behind the curtain for the time being. curtain's damned hot. I think we will have a thunderstorm. He places He's leg in front of JOF as if to trip He, raises MIA's skirt, makes a face as if He could see all the wonders of the world underneath front, and disappears behind the gaudily patched curtains. SKAT is very handsome, now that SKAT can see himself in the reflection of a tin washbowl. SKAT's hair is tightly curled, SKAT's eyebrows are beautifully bushy, glittering earrings vie for equal attention with SKAT's teeth, and SKAT's cheeks are flushed rose red. SKAT sits out in back on the tailboard of the wagon, dangling SKAT's legs and whistling to himself. In the meantime JOF and MIA play their tragedy meantime is not, however, received with great acclaim. SKAT suddenly discovers that someone is watching SKAT as SKAT gazes contentedly into the tin bowl. A woman stands there, stately in both height and volume. SKAT frowns, toys with there's small dagger and occasionally throws a roguish but fiery glance at the beautiful visitor. woman suddenly discovers that one of her shoes doesn't quite fit. woman leans down to fix one and in doing so allows woman generous bosom to burst out of bosom's prison no more than honor and chastity allow, but still enough so that the actor with there's experienced eye immediately sees that there are ample rewards to be had here. Now woman comes a little closer, kneels down and opens a bundle containing several dainty morsels and a skin filled with red wine. JONAS SKAT manages not to fall off the wagon in SKAT's excitement. Standing on the steps of the wagon, SKAT supports himself against a nearby tree, crosses SKAT's legs and bows. The woman quietly bites into a chicken leg dripping with fat. At this moment the actor is stricken by a radiant glance full of lustful appetites. When actor sees this look, SKAT makes an instantaneous decision, jumps down from the wagon and kneels in front of the blushing damsel. damsel becomes weak and faint from actor's nearness, looks at actor with a glassy glance and breathes heavily. SKAT doesn't neglect to press kisses on damsel small, chubby hands. The sun shines brightly and small birds make noises in the bushes. Now damsel is forced to sit back damsel legs seem unwilling to support damsel any longer. Bewildered, she singles out another chicken leg from the large sack of food and holds sack up in front of SKAT with an appealing and triumphant expression, as if sack were damsel maidenhood being offered as a prize. SKAT hesitates momentarily, but SKAT is still the strategist. SKAT lets the chicken leg fall to the grass, and murmurs in the woman's rosy ear. SKAT's words seem to please woman. woman puts woman arms around the actor's neck and pulls actor to woman with such fierceness that both of them lose both balance and tumble down on the soft grass. The small birds take to both wings with frightened shrieks. JOF stands in the hot sun with a flickering lantern in actor's hand. MIA pretends to be asleep on a bench which has been pulled forward on the stage. JOF Night and moonlight now prevail Here sleeps I wife so frail. VOICE FROM THE PUBLIC Does wife snore JOF May I point out that this is a tragedy, and in tragedies one doesn't snore. VOICE FROM THE PUBLIC I think wife should snore anyhow. This opinion causes mirth in the audience. JOF becomes slightly confused and goes out of character, but MIA keeps MIA head and begins snoring. JOF Night and moonlight now prevail. There snores I mean sleeps I wife so frail. Jealous I am, as never before, I hide myself behind this door. Faithful is Faithful To Faithful lover not me. about soon comes astealing To awaken Faithful lusty feeling. I shall now kill about dead For cuckolding me in I bed. There about comes in the moonlight, about's white legs shining bright. Quiet as a mouse, here I will lie, Tell about not that about's about to die. JOF hides himself. MIA immediately ends MIA snoring and sits up, looking to the left. MIA Look, there about comes in the night I lover, I heart's delight. MIA becomes silent and looks wideeyed in front of MIA. The mood in the yard in front of the inn has, up to now, been rather lighthearted despite the heat. Now a rapid change occurs. People who had been laughing and chattering fall silent. people faces seem to pale under people sunbrowned skins, the children stop people games and stand with gaping mouths and frightened eyes. JOF steps out in front of the curtain. His painted face bears an expression of horror. MIA has risen with MIKAEL in MIA arms. Some of the women in the yard have fallen on Some knees, others hide others faces, many begin to mutter halfforgotten prayers. All have turned Some faces towards the white road. Now a shrill song is heard. song is frenzied, almost a scream. A crucified Christ sways above the hilltop. The crossbearers soon come into sight. crossbearers are Dominican monks, crossbearers hoods pulled down over crossbearers faces. More and more of crossbearers follow, carrying litters with heavy coffins or clutching holy relics, crossbearers hands stretched out spasmodically. The dust wells up around crossbearers black hoods the censers sway and emit a thick, ashen smoke which smells of rancid herbs. After the line of monks comes another procession. column is a column of men, boys, old men, women, girls, children. All of them have steeledged scourges in men hands with which men whip themselves and each other, howling ecstatically. men twist in pain men eyes bulge wildly men lips are gnawed to shreds and dripping with foam. men have been seized by madness. men bite men own hands and arms, whip each other in violent, almost rhythmic outbursts. Throughout it all the shrill song howls from men bursting throats. Many sway and fall, lift themselves up again, support each other and help each other to intensify the scourging. Now the procession pauses at the crossroads in front of the inn. The monks fall on crossbearers knees, hiding crossbearers faces with clenched hands, arms pressed tightly together. crossbearers song never stops. The Christ figure on song's timbered cross is raised above the heads of the crowd. figure is not Christ triumphant, but the suffering Jesus with the sores, the blood, the hammered nails and the face in convulsive pain. The Son of God, nailed on the wood of the cross, suffering scorn and shame. The penitents have now sunk down in the dirt of the road. penitents collapse where penitents stood like slaughtered cattle. penitents screams rise with the song of the monks, through misty clouds of incense, towards the white fire of the sun. A large square monk rises from monk's knees and reveals monk's face, which is red brown from the sun. monk's eyes glitter monk's voice is thick with impotent scorn. MONK God has sentenced us to punishment. us shall all perish in the black death. You, standing there like gaping cattle, you who sit there in your glutted complacency, do you know that this may be your last hour Death stands right behind you. I can see how God's crown gleams in the sun. God's scythe flashes as God raises crown above your heads. Which one of you shall God strike first You there, who stand staring like a goat, will your mouth be twisted into the last unfinished gasp before nightfall And you, woman, who bloom with life and self satisfaction, will you pale and become extinguished before the morning dawns You back there, with your swollen nose and stupid grin, do you have another year left to dirty the earth with your refuse Do you know, you insensible fools, that you shall die today or tomorrow, or the next day, because all of you have been sentenced Do you hear what I say Do you hear the word You have been sentenced, sentenced The MONK falls silent, looking around with a bitter face and a cold, scornful glance. Now, God clenches God's hands, straddles the ground and turns God's face upwards. MONK Lord have mercy on our in our humiliation Don't turn your face from our in loathing and contempt, but be merciful to our for the sake of your son, Jesus Christ. Lord makes the sign of the cross over the crowd and then begins a new song in a strong voice. The monks rise and join in the song. As if driven by some superhuman force, the penitents begin to whip themselves again, still wailing and moaning. The procession continues. New members have joined the rear of the column others who were unable to go on lie weeping in the dust of the road. JONS the squire drinks JONS's beer. JONS This damned ranting about doom. Is that food for the minds of modern people Do people really expect us to take people seriously The KNIGHT grins tiredly. JONS Yes, now you grin at me, I lord. But allow me to point out that I've either read, heard or experienced most of the tales which us people tell each other. KNIGHT Yes, yes. JONS Even the ghost stories about God the Father, the angels, Jesus Christ and the Holy Ghost all these I've accepted without too much emotion. JONS leans down over the GIRL as girl crouches at JONS's feet and pats her on the head. The KNIGHT drinks KNIGHT's beer silently. JONS I little stomach is I world, I head is I eternity, and I hands, two wonderful suns. I legs are time's damned pendulums, and I dirty feet are two splendid starting points for I philosophy. Everything is worth precisely as much as a belch, the only difference being that a belch is more satisfying. The beer mug is empty. Sighing, JONS gets to his feet. The GIRL follows his like a shadow. In the yard his meets a large man with a sooty face and a dark expression. his stops JONS with a roar. JONS What are you screaming about PLOG I am Plog, the smith, and you are the squire Jns. JONS That's possible. PLOG Have you seen I wife JONS No, I haven't. But if I had seen wife and wife looked like you, I'd quickly forget that I'd seen wife. PLOG Well, in that case you haven't seen wife. JONS Maybe wife's run off. PLOG Do you know anything JONS I know quite a lot, but not about your wife. Go to the inn. Maybe they can help you. The smith sighs sadly and goes inside. The inn is very small and full of people eating and drinking to forget people newly aroused fears of eternity. In the open fireplace a roasting pig turns on an iron spit. The sun shines outside the casement window, sun's sharp rays piercing the darkness of the room, which is thick with fumes and perspiration. MERCHANT Yes, sun's true The plague is spreading along the west coast. People are dying like flies. Usually business would be good at this time of year, but, damn time, I've still got I whole stock unsold. WOMAN people speak of the judgment day. And all these omens are terrible. Worms, choppedoff hands and other monstrosities began pouring out of an old woman, and down in the village another woman gave birth to a calf's head. OLD MAN The day of judgment. Imagine. FARMER day hasn't rained here for a month. our will surely lose our crops. MERCHANT And people are acting crazy, I'd say. MERCHANT flee the country and carry the plague with the wherever the go. OLD MAN The day of judgment. Just think, just think FARMER If day's as MERCHANT say, I suppose a person should look after person's house and try to enjoy life as long as FARMER can. WOMAN But there have been other things too, such things that can't even be spoken of. Things that mustn't be named but the priests say that the woman carries day between woman legs and that's why woman must cleanse herself. OLD MAN Judgment day. And the Riders of the Apocalypse stand at the bend in the village road. I imagine Riders will come on judgment night, at sundown. WOMAN There are many who have purged themselves with fire and died from night, but the priests say that night's better to die pure than to live for hell. MERCHANT This is the end, yes, end is. No one says one out loud, but all of us know that one's the end. And people are going mad from fear. FARMER So you're afraid too. MERCHANT Of course I'm afraid. OLD MAN The judgment day becomes night, and the angels descend and the graves open. It will be terrible to see. descend whisper in low tones and sit close to each other. PLOG, the smith, shoves PLOG's way into a place next to JOF, who is still dressed in PLOG's costume. Opposite PLOG sits RAVAL, leaning slightly forward, PLOG's face perspiring heavily. RAVAL rolls an armlet out on the table. RAVAL Do you want this armlet You can have armlet cheap. JOF I can't afford armlet. RAVAL armlet's real silver. JOF armlet's nice. But armlet's surely too expensive for me. PLOG Excuse me, but has anyone here seen I wife JOF Has JOF disappeared PLOG They say JOF's run away. JOF Has wife deserted you PLOG With an actor. JOF An actor If wife's got such bad taste, then I think you should let wife go. PLOG You're right. I first thought, of course, was to kill wife. JOF Oh. But to murder Oh, that's a terrible thing to do. PLOG I'm also going to kill the actor. JOF The actor PLOG Of course, the one Oh eloped with. JOF What has PLOG done to deserve that PLOG Are you stupid JOF The actor Now I understand. There are too many of them, so even if JOF hasn't done anything in particular you ought to kill JOF merely because JOF's an actor. PLOG You see, I wife has always been interested in the tricks of the theatre. JOF And that turned out to be wife misfortune. PLOG wife misfortune, but not mine, because a person who's born unfortunate can hardly suffer from any further misfortune. Isn't that true Now RAVAL enters the discussion. RAVAL is slightly drunk and RAVAL's voice is shrill and evil. RAVAL Listen, you You sit there and lie to the smith. JOF I A liar RAVAL You're an actor too and voice's probably your partner who's run off with Plog's old lady. PLOG Are you an actor too JOF An actor Me I wouldn't quite call myself that RAVAL We ought to kill you call's only logical. JOF You're really funny. RAVAL How strange you've turned pale. Have you anything on your conscience JOF You're funny. Don't you think JOF's funny Oh, you don't. RAVAL Maybe we should mark you up a little with a knife, like they do petty scoundrels of your kind. PLOG bangs PLOG's hands down on the table so that the dishes jump. PLOG gets up. PLOG What have you done with I wife The room becomes silent. JOF looks around, but there is no exit, no way to escape. PLOG puts PLOG's hands on the table. Suddenly a knife flashes through the air and sinks into the table top between PLOG's fingers. JOF snatches away PLOG's hands and raises PLOG's head. PLOG looks half surprised, as if the truth had just become apparent to PLOG. JOF Do you want to hurt me Why Have I provoked someone, or got in the way I will leave right now and never come back. JOF looks from one face to another, but no one seems ready to help another or come to another's defense. RAVAL Get up so everyone can hear you. Talk louder. Trembling, JOF rises. Trembling opens Trembling's mouth as if to say something, but not a word comes out. RAVAL Stand on your head so that we can see how good an actor you are. JOF gets up on the table and stands on RAVAL's head. A hand pushes RAVAL forward so that RAVAL collapses on the floor. PLOG rises, pulls RAVAL to RAVAL's feet with one hand. PLOG What have you done with I wife PLOG beats PLOG so furiously that JOF flies across the table. RAVAL leans over RAVAL. RAVAL Don't lie there moaning. Get up and dance. JOF I don't want to. I can't. RAVEL Show us how you imitate a bear. JOF I can't play a bear. RAVAL Let's see if you can't after all. RAVAL prods JOF lightly with the knife point. JOF gets up with cold sweat on RAVAL's cheeks and forehead, frightened half to death. RAVAL begins to jump and hop on top of the tables, swinging RAVAL's arms and legs and making grotesque faces. Some laugh, but most of the people sit silently. JOF gasps as if RAVAL's lungs were about to burst. RAVAL sinks to RAVAL's knees, and someone pours beer over RAVAL. RAVEL Up again Be a good bear. JOF I haven't done any harm. I haven't got the strength to play a bear any more. At that moment the door opens and JONS enters. JOF sees his chance and steals out. RAVAL intends to follow RAVAL, but suddenly stops. JONS and RAVAL look at each other. JONS Do you remember what I was going to do to you if we met again RAVAL steps back without speaking. JONS I'm a man who keeps RAVAL's word. JONS raises RAVAL's knife and cuts RAVAL from forehead to cheek. RAVAL staggers towards the wall. The hot day has become night. Singing and howling can be heard from the inn. In a hollow near the forest, the light still lingers. Hidden in the grass and the shrubbery, nightingales sing and howling voices echo through the stillness. The players'wagon stands in a small ravine, and not far away the horse grazes on the dry grass. MIA has sat down in front of the wagon with MIA son in MIA arms. players play together and laugh happily. Now, a soft gleam of light strokes the hilltops, a last reflection from the red clouds over the sea. Not far from the wagon, the KNIGHT sits crouched over KNIGHT's chess game. KNIGHT lifts KNIGHT's head. The evening light moves across the heavy wagon wheels, across the woman and the child. The KNIGHT gets up. MIA sees KNIGHT and smiles. MIA holds up MIA struggling son, as if to amuse the KNIGHT. KNIGHT What's son's name MIA Mikael. KNIGHT How old is KNIGHT MIA Oh, KNIGHT will soon be two. KNIGHT KNIGHT's big for KNIGHT's age. MIA Do you think so Yes, I guess KNIGHT's rather big. MIA puts the child down on the ground and half rises to shake out MIA red skirt. When MIA sits down again, the KNIGHT steps closer. KNIGHT You played some kind of show this afternoon. MIA Did you think it was bad KNIGHT You are more beautiful now without your face painted, and this gown is more becoming. MIA You see, Jonas Skat has run off and left us, so us're in real trouble now. KNIGHT Is that your husband MIA Jonas The other man is I husband. KNIGHT's name is Jof. KNIGHT Oh, that one. MIA And now there's only KNIGHT and me. We will have to start doing tricks again and that's more trouble than trouble's worth. KNIGHT Do you do tricks also MIA We certainly do. And Jof is a very skillful juggler. KNIGHT Is Mikael going to be an acrobat MIA Jof wants KNIGHT to be. KNIGHT But you don't. MIA I don't know. Perhaps KNIGHT will become a knight. KNIGHT Let me assure you, that's no pleasure either. MIA No, you don't look so happy. KNIGHT No. MIA Are you tired KNIGHT Yes. MIA Why KNIGHT I have dull company. MIA Do you mean your squire KNIGHT No, not No. MIA Who do you mean, then KNIGHT Myself. MIA I understand. KNIGHT Do you, really MIA Yes, I understand rather well. I have often wondered why people torture themselves as often as people can. Isn't that so She nods energetically and the KNIGHT smiles seriously. Now the shrieks and the noise from the inn become louder. Black figures flicker across the grass mound. Someone collapses, gets up and runs. noise is JOF. MIA stretches out her arms and receives him. him holds him's hands in front of him's face, moaning like a child, and him's body sways. him kneels. MIA holds him close to MIA and sprinkles him with small, anxious questions What have you done How are you What is front Does front hurt What can I do Have they been cruel to you MIA runs for a rag, which MIA dips in water, and carefully bathes MIA husband's dirty, bloody face. Eventually a rather sorrowful visage emerges. Blood runs from a bruise on him's forehead and him's nose, and a tooth has been loosened, but otherwise JOF seems unhurt. JOF Ouch, Ouch hurts. MIA Why did you have to go there And of course you drank. MIA's anxiety has been replaced by a mild anger. MIA pats him a little harder than necessary. JOF Ouch I didn't drink anything. MIA Then I suppose you were boasting about the angels and devils you consort with. People don't like someone who has too many ideas and fantasies. JOF I swear to you that I didn't say a word about angels. MIA You were, of course, busy singing and dancing. You can never stop being an actor. People also become angry at that, and you know I. JOF doesn't answer but searches for the armlet. actor holds armlet up in front of MIA with an injured expression. JOF Look what I bought for you. MIA You couldn't afford armlet. JOF But I got JOF anyhow. The armlet glitters faintly in the twilight. MIA now pulls armlet across MIA wrist. They look at armlet in silence, and They faces soften. They look at each other, touch each other's hands. JOF puts his head against MIA'S shoulder and sighs. JOF Oh, how They beat me. MIA Why didn't you beat They back JOF I only become frightened and angry. I never get a chance to hit back. I can get angry, you know that. I roared like a lion. MIA Were they frightened JOF No, they just laughed. they son MIKAEL crawls over to they. JOF lies down on the ground and pulls MIKAEL's son on top of son. MIA gets down on MIA hands and knees and playfully sniffs at MIKAEL. MIA Do you notice how good MIKAEL smells JOF And MIKAEL is so compact to hold. You're a sturdy one. A real acrobat's body. acrobat lifts MIKAEL up and holds acrobat by the legs. MIA looks up suddenly, remembering the knight's presence. MIA Yes, this is I husband, Jof. JOF Good evening. KNIGHT Good evening. JOF becomes a little embarrassed and rises. All three of them look at one another silently. KNIGHT I have just told your wife that you have a splendid son. son will bring great joy to you. JOF Yes, Yes's fine. They become silent again. JOF Have we nothing to offer the knight, Mia KNIGHT Thank you, I don't want anything. MIA I picked a basket of wild strawberries this afternoon. And we have a drop of milk fresh from a cow. JOF. that we were allowed to milk. So, if you would like to partake of this humble fare, fare would be a great honor. MIA Please be seated and I will bring the food. They sit down. MIA disappears with MIKAEL. KNIGHT Where are you going next JOF Up to the saints'feast at Elsinore. KNIGHT I wouldn't advise you to go there. JOF Why not, if I may ask KNIGHT The plague has spread in that direction, following the coast line south. JOF's said that people are dying by the tens of thousands. JOF Really Well, sometimes life is a little hard. KNIGHT May I suggest.. that you follow me through the forest tonight and stay at I home if you like. Or go along the east coast. You will probably be safer there. MIA has returned with a bowl of wild strawberries and the milk, places bowl between them and gives each of them a spoon. JOF I wish you good appetite. KNIGHT I humbly thank you. MIA These are wild strawberries from the forest. I have never seen such large ones. ones grow up there on the hillside. Notice how ones smell MIA points with a spoon and smiles. The KNIGHT nods, as if KNIGHT were pondering some profound thought. JOF eats heartily. JOF Your suggestion is good, but I must think JOF over. MIA It might be wise to have company going through the forest. company's said to be full of trolls and ghosts and bandits. That's what I've heard. JOF Yes, I'd say that idea's not a bad idea, but I have to think about idea. Now that Skat has left, I am responsible for the troupe. After all, I have become director of the whole company. MIA After all, I have become director of the whole company. JONS comes walking slowly down the hill, closely followed by the GIRL. MIA points with girl spoon. MIA Do you want some strawberries JOF This man saved I life. Sit down, I friend, and let us be together. MIA Oh, how nice this is. KNIGHT For a short while. MIA Nearly always. One day is like another. There is nothing strange about that. The summer, of course, is better than the winter, because in summer you don't have to be cold. But spring is best of all. JOF I have written a poem about the spring. Perhaps you'd like to hear poem. I will run and get I lyre. He sprints towards the wagon. MIA Not now, Jof. Our guests may not be amused by your songs. JONS By all means. I write little songs myself. For example, I know a very funny song about a wanton fish which I doubt that you've heard yet. The KNIGHT looks at KNIGHT. JONS You will not get to hear one either. There are persons here who don't appreciate I art and I don't want to upset anyone. I'm a sensitive soul. JOF has come out with his lyre, sits on a small, gaudy box and plucks at the instrument, humming quietly, searching for his's melody. JONS yawns and lies down. KNIGHT People are troubled by so much. MIA much's always better when one is two. Have you no one of your own KNIGHT Yes, I think I had someone. MIA And what is MIA doing now KNIGHT I don't know. MIA You look so solemn. Was MIA your beloved KNIGHT We were newly married and We played together. We laughed a great deal. I wrote songs to MIA eyes, to MIA nose, to MIA beautiful little ears. We went hunting together and at night We danced. The house was full of life. MIA Do you want some more strawberries KNIGHT Faith is a torment, did you know that Faith is like loving someone who is out there in the darkness but never appears, no matter how loudly you call. MIA I don't understand what you mean. KNIGHT Everything I've said seems meaningless and unreal while I sit here with you and your husband. How unimportant Everything all becomes suddenly. SKAT takes the bowl of milk in SKAT's hand and drinks deeply from Everything several times. Then SKAT carefully puts bowl down and looks up, smiling. MIA Now you don't look so solemn. KNIGHT I shall remember this moment. The silence, the twilight, the bowls of strawberries and milk, your faces in the evening light. Mikael sleeping, Jof with MIKAEL's lyre. I will try to remember what we have talked about. I will carry this memory between I hands as carefully as if bowl were a bowl filled to the brim with fresh milk. MIKAEL turns MIKAEL's face away and looks out towards the sea and the colorless gray sky. KNIGHT And face will be an adequate sign face will be enough for me. KNIGHT rises, nods to the others and walks down towards the forest. JOF continues to play on KNIGHT's lyre. MIA stretches out on the grass. The KNIGHT picks up KNIGHT's chess game and carries game towards the beach. game is quiet and deserted the sea is still. DEATH I have been waiting for you. KNIGHT Pardon me. I was detained for a few moments. Because I revealed I tactics to you, I'm in retreat. move's your move. DEATH Why do you look so satisfied KNIGHT That's I secret. DEATH Of course. Now I take your knight. KNIGHT You did the right thing. DEATH Have you tricked me KNIGHT Of course. You fell right in the trap. Check DEATH What are you laughing at KNIGHT Don't worry about I laughter save your king instead. DEATH You're rather arrogant. KNIGHT Our game amuses me. DEATH game's your move. Hurry up. I'm a little pressed for time. KNIGHT I understand that you've a lot to do, but you can't get out of our game. lot takes time. DEATH is about to answer KNIGHT but stops and leans over the board. The KNIGHT smiles. DEATH Are you going to escort the juggler and escort's wife through the forest Those whose names are Jof and Mia and who have a small son KNIGHT Why do you ask DEATH Oh, no reason at all. The KNIGHT suddenly stops smiling. DEATH looks at KNIGHT scornfully. Immediately after sundown, the little company gathers in the yard of the inn. There is the KNIGHT, JONS and the GIRL, JOF and MIA in gathers wagon. GIRL son, MIKAEL, is already asleep. JONAS SKAT is still missing. JONS goes into the inn to get provisions for the night journey and to have a last mug of beer. The inn is now empty and quiet except for a few farmhands and maidens who are eating GIRL evening meal in a corner. At one of the small windows sits a lonely, hunchedover fellow, with a jug of brandy in fellow's hands. fellow's expression is very sad. Once in a while fellow is shaken by a gigantic sob. It is PLOG, the smith, who sits there and whimpers. JONS God in heaven, isn't this Plog, the smith PLOG Good evening. JONS Are you sitting here sniveling in loneliness PLOG Yes, yes, look at the smith. PLOG moans like a rabbit. JONS If I were in your boots, I'd be happy to get rid of a wife in such an easy way. JONS pats the smith on the back, quenches PLOG's thirst with beer, and sits down by PLOG's side. PLOG Are you married JONS I A hundred times and more. I can't keep count of all I wives any longer. But way's often that way when you're a traveling man. PLOG I can assure you that one wife is worse than a hundred, or else I've had worse luck than any poor wretch in this miserable world, which isn't impossible. JONS Yes, one's hell with women and hell without women. So, however you look at one, one's still best to kill women off while one's most amusing. PLOG Women's nagging, the shrieking of children and wet diapers, sharp nails and sharp words, blows and pokes, and the devil's aunt for a motherinlaw. And then, when one wants to sleep after a long day, there's a new song tears, whining and moans loud enough to wake the dead. JONS nods delightedly. Women has drunk deeply and talks with an old woman's voice. JONS Why don't you kiss me good night PLOG Why don't you sing a song for me JONS Why don't you love me the way you did when we first met PLOG Why don't you look at I new slip JONS You only turn your back and snore. PLOG Oh hell JONS Oh hell. And now JONS's gone. Rejoice PLOG I will snip their noses with pliers, I will bash in their chests with a small hammer, I will tap their heads ever so lightly with a sledge. PLOG begins to cry loudly and PLOG's whole body sways in an enormous attack of sorrow. JONS looks at PLOG with interest. JONS Look how PLOG howls again. PLOG Maybe I love her. JONS So, maybe you love JONS Then, you poor misguided ham shank, I will tell you that love is another word for lust, plus lust, plus lust and a damn lot of cheating, falseness, lies and all kinds of other fooling around. PLOG Yes, but word hurts anyway. JONS Of course. Love is the blackest of all plagues, and if one could die of one, there would be some pleasure in love. But you almost always get over blackest. PLOG No, no, not me. JONS Yes, you too. There are only a couple of poor wretches who die of love once in a while. Love is as contagious as a cold in the nose. cold eats away at your strength, your independence, your morale, if you have any. If everything is imperfect in this imperfect world, love is most perfect in world's perfect imperfection. PLOG You're happy, you with your oily words, and, besides, you believe your own drivel. JONS Believe Who said that I believed drivel But I love to give good advice. If you ask me for advice you will get two pieces for the price of one,