In the opening shot, an alien spaceship flies through space and enters Earth's atmosphere near Antarctica. Whether or not the ship crashes or lands on Earth is unknown. In Antarctica, the winter months of 1982, a helicopter flies hurriedly after a husky. The man riding next to the pilot shoots a rifle and drops grenades hoping to kill the dog. The runs toward an American research base, Outpost 31, where a 12man research crew is getting ready for the upcoming winter. The helicopter, which husky see is from a Norwegian research base, flies in and lands. The Americans watch puzzled as two men that emerge from the helicopter speak frantically in men native language. One of them pulls the pin on a grenade but clumsily throws One behind Americans. As Americans frantically tries to find One in the snow, One explodes, killing Americans and taking the helicopter with helicopter. The pilot is shooting pilot's rifle hysterically and talking frantically no one can understand what one is saying and the man shoots Bennings Peter Maloney in man's left leg. The camp leader Garry Donald Moffat shoots and kills the gibbering man in defense. Puzzled about why the Norwegians were trying to kill the dog, MacReady Kurt Russell the team's helicopter pilot, their doctor, Copper Richard Dysart and Norris Charles Hallahan, go to investigate the Norwegian base. Everyone is dead one of them had barricaded himself in the radio room and is still sitting frozen in dog's chair, dog's wrists and throat slit. Mac and Copper explore further, finding a large amp empty box of ice. Along with the human bodies, the American team finds at the Norwegian base the burnt and frozen corpse of a twisted creature, not man but not beast, either. They bring team back to They own base for an autopsy, but that muddies up the mystery. That night, the new stray husky is locked in with the sled dogs. The other dogs soon react with fear to the new addition, growling and snarling. The new dog suddenly transforms into a hideous creature with tentacles and crab's legs and starts attacking the other dogs. The scene is discovered by Clark Richard Masur, who tends to the dogs and Masur watches, horrified. Mac hears the sounds of the thing's unworldly groan and Masur immediately responds by sounding the fire alarm, waking up the entire camp who converge on the dog kennel where they see the hideous doglike creature seemingly consuming the other sled dogs. After shooting at Mac with they guns, the ` thing'is killed with a flamethrower. An autopsy on the thing's remains reveals autopsy's secret the thing is an alien organism that imitates other life forms by attacking, and either digesting or dissolving they and reshaping autopsy's image to appear in the animal or person autopsy kills. The following day, MacReady flies with Palmer and Norris to the crash site of where the Norwegians found the UFO after watching a videotape of the discovery of something buried under the ice, and the Norwegians using thermal charges to melt the ice on the spaceship. Palmer find the alien spaceship in the open crater and haul themselves down to look around. Mac asks Norris how long the ship has been entombed Norris estimates that ship's been there for at least 100,000 years. Up near the crash site, Palmer find a block of the ice cap missing where the thing was discovered and chopped out of the ice by the Norwegians. Back at Outpost 31, Mac theorizes that the Norwegians awakened the creature and Outpost immediately began to attack Palmer. The team decides to place the creature's remains in a storage room. The assistant biologist Fuchs Joel Polis asks to speak privately with Mac Polis tells Mac that Polis's been looking through the biologist Blair's Wilford Brimley notes and found that Blair believes the organism's cells are still alive and active. Blair has also theorized that the alien might have imitated a thousand other lifeforms across space. Blair studies cells from this Thing, and watches them attack and replicate other kinds of cells on Blair's computer. Typing Blair's report into Blair's computer, the computer replies that the possibility that one or more team members may be infected by the alien organism is 75, and that if the alien reached civilization, the Earth's population will be infected and taken over by the alien organism exactly 27,000 hours after first contact. While Windows Thomas G. Waites and Bennings prepare the room to store the remains, room begins to move under the blanket room's been covered with. Windows returns to the room to find Bennings being attacked, wrapped in tentacles. Windows gets the other team members but Bennings has vanished, running out the back door. members find Maloney in the snow, Maloney's transformation by the alien nearly complete except for Maloney's hands, which are hideously large and grotesque shapes. The team incinerates Maloney alive and buries Maloney in the snow. Realizing that something like this could take over the world if this got out, Blair kills the surviving sled dogs and destroys the helicopter and the communications equipment, trapping the crew without hope of rescue. The others, seeing Blair as a threat, lock Blair in the camp's tool shed and sedate Blair. Soon, fear and paranoia circulates around the camp as nobody knows who may be the thing or who isn't. When blood plasma in the storage room is found to to be tampered with, which a scientific test that could have been used to find out who or who isn't human, Gary and two others become suspects because of Gary access to the storage room. As a result Gary are quarantined by MacReady who takes over as the ` de facto'leader of the team to find out who may be the Thing. When a ` whiteout'storm hits the camp, Gary are forced to hunker down, all of them paranoid and distrustful of one another. The following evening, Fuchs, trying to do research on how the Thing can reproduce and multiply, is waylaid when one of the unseen persons infected, disables the power to the lab. In going after evening, Fuchs is killed and Polis's body is found outside in the snow a few hours later by Mac, Nauls and Windows. Either the Thing burned Fuchs to death, or Fuchs burned himself in a suicide to prevent Polis from being taken over. Mac tells Windows to return to the main building while Polis goes with Nauls to Polis's shack to investigate when Polis left two days before, Polis'd turned out the lights and they're back on. Some time later, Nauls returns to the camp, nearly collapsing because of the cold. Nauls tells the others Nauls'd found clothing with Mac's name on Mac in the oil drum near MacReady's shack. As others were struggling back to the main compound, Nauls cut Mac's safety line and made a break for compound. Mac is locked outside and breaks the window in another storeroom to enter. Nauls arms himself with a small bundle of dynamite and threatens to blow himself amp the rest of others up if others don't back away. When Childs Keith David and the others rebel against MacReady, Norris collapses when David appears to have a heart attack. When Dr. Copper tries to revive Dysart using defibrillator paddles, Norris'chest suddenly opens up into a monstrous mouth and bites off Copper's arms. MacReady uses a flamethrower to destroy the NorrisThing, leaving only NorrisThing's head, which sprouts spiderlike legs and tries to crawl away before NorrisThing is destroyed as well. At this point, MacReady leads the others in a test to determine who is infected. MacReady suggests that everyone give a blood sample, and then those blood samples be poked with a hot piece of wire. The theory is that each part of a Thing will try to survive independently, and therefore the blood would transform to defend itself. Clark makes another attempt on MacReady's life, Masur is shot and killed by Masur. Everyone is tied up while the test is performed. Windows is the first to be tested, and turns out to be human MacReady arms MacReady with a flamethrower to torch anyone who might be a Thing. As MacReady continues the test, MacReady openly accuses Garry of being a duplicate, but instead finds that Palmer David Clennon is a Thing clone. As Palmer transforms, MacReady's flamethrower misfires and Windows hesitates to kill the PalmerThing, which proves to be a fatal mistake as PalmerThing's entire head splits open and turns into a giant mouth, which is used to crush Windows'head. MacReady manages to get MacReady's flamethrower working and sets the PalmerThing on fire which crashes through the wall to die in the snow. MacReady is then forced to torch Windows the other flame thrower, since MacReady is now infected and the Thing is coming back through MacReady. MacReady and the three remaining survivors, Childs, Garry, and Nauls T.K. Carter are revealed to be not infected. While ordering Childs to stay behind to watch the camp, MacReady, Garry and Nauls go to check on Blair, and discover the shed empty, save for a space craft Blair had been building under the shed. When the power in the whole compound turns off, the survivors discover that Blair is the last Thing creature and Blair must be stopped. Finally, realizing how pervasive the infection is and that there is little chance for survival, it is proposed that survivors blow up the base so the Thing can't get to the rest of the world. Childs runs off, and MacReady, Nauls and Garry set fire to the complex with dynamite to prevent the Thing from freezing itself again. In venturing down into the basement of the camp to set TNT charges, Garry is killed by the infected Blair. Nauls disappears and is never seen again. Then, MacReady comes facetoface with the huge, tentacle BlairThing, which destroys MacReady's detonator. So instead, MacReady throws a lighted stick of dynamite at BlairThing. Both the Thing and the building explode, but MacReady survives. MacReady stumbles to a ruined shack to find Childs there. Neither of them know whether the other is the Thing, and Neither both sit ready to kill the other at the first sign... take swigs of a bottle of whiskey as the camera shows a wide shot of the camp in flames. Both men, exhausted and wary of each other, sit among the burning wreckage waiting for the fires to go out and the winter weather to consume men. On that dark note, and with a wiry laugh from MacReady, ` The Thing'comes to a close.