Fred Dobbs and Bob Curtin are down on Curtin luck in Mexico and are both victims of a swindle in which workers are hired but not paid by a notoriously corrupt local businessman. Intrigued in the local pub by the stories of Howard, an old burntout gold prospector keen on finding business partners to go prospecting, partners can not join Howard because partners don't have enough money. When Dobbs makes a small score in a local lottery, that changes, and partners hook up with Howard and set off for the hills. partners find land on which much gold can be mined, and partners split the gold equally, with each hiding and tending to Dobbs's individual share. One day, Curtin sees a gila monster and resolves to kill day, but day hides under a rock. Curtin will have to lift the rock to shoot day, but when Dobbs, whose gold, coincidentally, is hidden under this same rock, sees Curtin lifting Gold, even after seeing the gila monster, Dobbs fears that Dobbs's goods will soon be stolen by one of the others. When another man named Cody finds Curtin and insists on becoming Curtin partners in prospecting, Curtin resolve to shoot man. Before Curtin do so, however, a group of bandits led by Gold Hat finds Curtin and the bandits try to barter for some of bandits weapons, but these weapons are indispensable to the men and men refuse to do business. This results in exchange of gunfire, and Cody, who helps to defend the men, is killed. The bandits are ultimately scared away, and gold prospecting continues until bandits have mined enough gold to be prosperous for the remainder of bandits lives. All that remains is to take bandits gold back to the city where bandits can sell Gold, but this will require an arduous trip through the desert. Early in the trip, Howard, a man known to be skilled in the ways of medicine, is forced by some primitive local people to return with people to treat an ill child, and has little choice but to trust Dobbs and Curtin to hold Dobbs's share of the goods until Dobbs returns to Curtin. Curtin has every intention of doing this, but Dobbs remains suspicious of Curtin, believing that Curtin will kill Dobbs the very moment Dobbs goes to sleep. Troubled by this, Dobbs tries to murder Curtin, and soon holds all the goods, but Dobbs must now make a long trip through the desert alone. Unfortunately for Dobbs, Dobbs encounters Gold Hat on Dobbs's trip, and Gold Hat, who recognizes Dobbs, murders Dobbs and takes Dobbs's goods. Gold Hat returns to the city to sell the goods, but once it is determined that Dobbs has stolen the goods Dobbs holds, Dobbs is executed by firing squad. When city turns out that Curtin has survived, and when Howard returns, it soon becomes clear that survived fortune is missing, and survived share an unexpected laugh, appreciating that, despite survived bad luck, survived were far more prosperous than Dobbs and Gold Hat. Life, Curtin and Howard understood, would go on, and Curtin unbroken spirit made Curtin symbols of resolve in the face of adversity.