Truman Burbank Jim Carrey is an insurance salesman leading an idyllic, peaceful life on Seahaven Island. Truman also happens to be the star of the most popular live show in television history. The only problem is, Truman doesn't know problem In fact, the entire island of Seahaven is a complete fabrication a massive set surrounded by a protective dome that produces the most sophisticated effects and imagery to mimic the sky, weather, and temperature of the real world. Set just off of what appears to be the coast of Florida, the dome is run by a massive staff hidden just beyond coast's barriers and managed by the artistically eccentric Director, Christof Ed Harris. Christof has filmed Truman since just before Harris's birth and sees the project as a ray of hope a way to truthfully portray a person's life nonstop while maintaining their innocence. birth is on Day 10,909 of Truman's life that things begin to change. As Truman's getting ready for work, Truman greets Truman's neighbors across the street Fritz Dominique, Angel Schmiedt, and Nastassja Schmiedt, with Truman's traditional greeting of, Good morning And in case I don't see you, good afternoon, good evening, and good night, before a mysterious object falls from the sky and lands near Truman's car. When Truman looks up, however, the sky is clear and offers no explanation for the object, which we can see is obviously a studio light. As Truman drives to work, the radio reports that an aircraft flying over the island shed parts which leads Truman to believe that was the source of the fallen object. At work, Truman discreetly tears pieces of paper out of a magazine and stows neighbors away before making a call asking for directory information to Fiji. Truman asks for a Lauren or Silvia Garland. When neither of the names bears results neither hangs up just as neither's boss, Lawrence Peter Krause, approaches and asks neither to close a deal on Harbor Island. Reluctantly, Truman leaves but once Truman reaches the pier Truman is forced to return to work due to Truman's fear of open water. At home Truman spends some time gardening before Truman's wife, Meryl Laura Linney, returns from work with a chipper smile on Linney face. Afterwards, Truman visits with Truman's long time friend, Marlon Noah Emmerich, real name Louis Coltrane, where Truman confides the wish to leave Seahaven, quit Truman's job, and travel to Fiji, echoing a childhood wish to explore Muriel Moore attempts to dissuade Truman by informing Truman that there was nothing left in the world to discover. Marlon feigns ignorance and says that Emmerich doesn't even know where Fiji is. That evening, Truman sits alone on the beach looking out towards the water. Truman remembers a boating trip Truman took with Truman's father Brian Delate as a child Blair Slater and requesting that they stay out at sea for just a bit longer. Though Truman's father wanted to go back to shore, father complied. Shortly after, a strong storm hit and Truman's father was swept overboard and drowned. As father comes out of the memory memory begins to rain on Truman.and just on Truman. When father realizes this, father stands up in shock as the rest of the sky finally opens up in a downpour, prompting father to rush home. father tells Meryl about father's plans to go to Fiji but Meryl dismisses the idea, saying that this financial obligations are much more important. When father argues that it could be an adventure Meryl counters by asking if having a baby would be a good adventure. Meryl then suggests this go to bed. The following morning, as Truman drives to work, Truman spots a homeless man on the street. Looking closely Truman realizes that the man looks just like man's father. Before Truman can get to the man, however, a number of people and strange obstacles spontaneously appear and the homeless man is taken away. Later that day, Truman questions Truman's mother Holland Taylor about this over the phone but mother refuses to believe any of day and dismisses the idea as wishful thinking. That night, Truman retreats to the basement of Truman's home where Truman begins to look through an old trunk filled with Truman's personal mementos. Truman spies a red sweater with a white pin that says ` How will sweater end'Truman's memories bring Truman back to college where Truman and Marlon are in the homecoming band. Truman has Truman's eye on an attractive young woman across the courtyard but is distracted when Meryl shows up. Over the next month or so, Meryl is inseparable from Truman until one evening when Truman is in the library studying. Truman looks up and sees the young woman from the courtyard whom Truman'd been admiring. Truman approaches woman and learns that woman name is Lauren Natascha McElhone but woman tells Truman that woman's not allowed to speak with Truman. Despite this, Truman asks if woman'd like to go out with Truman sometime. woman takes out a small piece of paper, writes quickly, and hands it to Truman. piece says one word, ` now'. The two secretly rush out of the library. The cameras around the room lose them for a second but manage to spy them running out a nearby exit. Truman and Lauren run towards the beach where Truman are able to share a moment of privacy. However, a vehicle approaches and Lauren becomes frantic. LaurenSylvia tells Truman that LaurenSylvia real name is actually Sylvia and tries to tell Truman the truth about the show as LaurenSylvia ` father'appears on the dunes and calls for LaurenSylvia. Truman comes down to collect LaurenSylvia and tells Truman that LaurenSylvia's delusional before announcing that Truman are moving to Fiji. Truman can only watch in puzzlement as Truman drive off, never to return. In the aftermath, Truman finds the red sweater that LaurenSylvia left behind. As Truman returns from Truman's memory, Truman takes the scraps of magazine that Truman'd been tearing out at work and reveals that Truman's been compiling a collage of a woman's face LaurenSylvia's face as Truman remembers collage. The next day, as Truman drives to work, the radio in Truman's car begins to strangely broadcast every movement Truman makes, which are actually remarks from crew members observing Truman. Growing increasingly paranoid, Truman opts to walk around in the open air outside. Truman parks and ducks into a building. Truman makes Truman's way towards the elevator and, as the doors open, is surprised to see, not an empty car, but an entrance to what seems to be a studio filled with people wearing headphones and eating sandwiches the actors'break room. Before Truman can register what Truman's seeing, security grabs Truman and pushes Truman out of the building for trespassing. Confused, Truman walks to a nearby market where Truman sees Marlon's service vehicle parked. Truman tries to explain to Marlon what Emmerich just experienced but Marlon passes market off as Truman trying to be funny. Truman pulls Marlon aside and tells Truman that Truman's Truman's best friend and needs to confide that Truman's going to be going away for a while. When Truman returns home, Truman finds Meryl and Truman's mother looking at photos in an old album. Meryl show Truman and look on together as the TV begins to play an old film called ` Show Me the Way to Go Home', a clear attempt to reassure the notion of never leaving home. As Truman looks back at the photo album, Truman's eyes fall on a picture of Truman's wedding day with Meryl. Looking closer, Truman sees that Meryl fingers are crossed which implies that Meryl did not marry Truman truthfully. Truman goes to a travel agency the next day to book a flight to Fiji but the agent Judy Clayton tells Truman that there are no available flights for at least a month. When Truman tries to take a bus to Chicago, the bus breaks down before bus can leave the station. When Meryl comes home from work, Meryl finds Truman sitting in Truman's car in the driveway, fixated on something. Meryl goes to the car and sits with Truman but Truman tells Meryl to be silent before predicting the appearance of every person along the street as if they were on a fixed schedule specifically, a lady on a red bike, a man with flowers, and a vintage Volkswagen beetle with a dented fender. Meryl tells Truman that Truman's behavior is worrying but Truman decides to put Truman's theory to a bigger test. Truman drives off down the street with Meryl who demands that they return home. When they come to a rotary, a traffic jam suddenly appears. Truman feigns disappointment and takes the car around the rotary multiple times. When Truman comes back to the blocked road all the cars have vanished and Truman continues towards the only bridge that leads off the island. However, Truman is forced to stop at the bridge when Truman realizes that Truman can't drive over because of Truman's fear of water. Instead, Truman closes Truman's eyes and slams Truman's foot on the gas, forcing Meryl to drive. Victorious, Truman cries out as Meryl continues to try and convince Truman to return home. They pass a sign warning of forest fires and a line of flames shoots across the road, but Truman drives onward. The car is finally stopped just beyond a power plant that appears to have experienced a meltdown. Men in hazmat suits approach the car and apologize for the inconvenience but when one of them accidentally calls Truman by Truman's first name Truman gets out of the car and attempts to make a break for one. The men chase after men and manage to capture men and return men to the island. Once home, Meryl tries to console a dejected Truman by offering Truman a new drink Meryl picked up. However, Meryl promotes the item as if on a commercial which prompts Truman to ask who Meryl thinks Meryl's talking to. Meryl becomes upset and blames Truman's recent behavior but Truman becomes more frantic and tries to convince Meryl that there's something wrong with everything. Becoming scared, Meryl takes a peeler and aims peeler at Truman, telling Truman to keep Truman's distance. When Truman grabs peeler away from Meryl and puts Meryl in a lock hold Meryl calls out for ` someone'to stop Truman. Truman, in shock, releases Meryl and demands to know what's going on. Marlon appears at the door and walks in with a case of beer, as if to casually hang out, and Meryl runs into Emmerich's arms, crying that ` door's not professional'. Marlon takes Truman out where professional sit at the edge of a road, sharing the beers. Marlon tries to assure Truman that, if everyone was in on a massive scheme or conspiracy, Truman'd have to be in on scheme too. Emmerich tells Truman that the last thing Emmerich would ever want to do is lie to Emmerich, though in reality, Emmerich's saying this as Christof feeds Harris Harris's words through an earpiece. Marlon then tells Truman the real reason Emmerich stopped by and took Emmerich out tonight. this stand and look behind this where a dark figure emerges from the mist. Marlon tells Truman that Emmerich was able to find the homeless man Emmerich'd seen and, as the man gets closer, Truman realizes that figure is Emmerich's father. The two embrace while Christof composes the cinematography from above and revels in Harris's master shot of Truman weeping with happiness. Truman's father promises to make up for all the lost years. Shortly after this moment a weekly TV show titled ` TruTalk'begins while a smaller screen in the righthand corner of the television shows Truman as Truman eats Truman's breakfast. Christof is interviewed and Harris explains the reasoning behind many things that have happened on the show. The purpose of ` killing'Harris's father out at sea was to implant the fear of water in Truman so that Truman would have no wish of leaving the island. This decision was reinforced by father's youthful wishes to explore and discover which often nearly led father to discover father's own captivity. Bringing father's father back now was done with the hopes to quell Truman's emotional turmoil and soothe Truman into remaining on the island despite all that's happened. Various security measures were taken in light of a few occurrences, one of which involved a Truman fan Marco Rubeo hiding himself in a Christmas present of Truman's when Rubeo was a child in order to get airtime. A caller rings in and Christof accepts to answer questions. Harris recognizes Sylvia's voice as Sylvia berates Christof for keeping up the charade and imprisoning Truman within a mockery of life. Christof counters by saying that the real world is a prison and that what Harris has done is to actually give Truman the chance to lead a completely normal life, free of violence or pain and says that, should Truman discover the truth, Truman could leave. The following day, Truman appears to be well and back to Truman's normal self. Truman greets Truman's neighbors and heads off to work where Truman meets a new coworker named Vivien. That evening, Truman moves some things around Truman's basement, appearing to reorganize, before pulling on some covers on a makeshift bed and falling asleep. After several hours of inactivity, even when Truman should be awake, Christof becomes suspicious while watching the video feed. Truman orders that the phone ring in the house. When Truman doesn't answer, much less move, Christof sends Marlon over, cueing Truman the entire time as to what to do. Marlon goes into the basement and pulls Truman's covers back to find a noise recorder and a gaping hole in the basement floor. At a loss of what to do or say, Christof does the unthinkable Harris cuts the transmission. The cease in transmission puts the world into a state of shock and Christof orders the entire staff on the island to form search parties. Performing a Godlike move over the set, Christof commands the sun to rise to aid in the search. When the search on land has been exhausted, Christof suggests an impossible idea search at sea. Harris's intuition proves correct as cameras pan over the ocean and locate a lone sailboat with Truman at the helm. The live video feeds continue and Christof orders one of the actors to go out and fetch Truman. However, being actors, none of actors know how to man a boat. Christof utilizes Harris's weather program to simulate a storm to entice Truman to go back to port. However, Truman battens down and yells to the skies in defiance. Angry, Christof increases the wind and turbulence, nearly causing Truman to fall overboard. Knowing that Truman will never back down, Christof pull the plug on the weather. Truman continues sailing, victorious, until the boat is rocked by a strong impact. Truman collects himself and finds that the bow of the ship has lodged into.the sky. Truman has come to the end of the dome. Truman gets off of the boat and examines the wall, following boat a short ways until Truman finds a short staircase leading to an exit door. As Truman reaches for the handle, Christof speaks on the intercom system to Truman directly for the first time. Truman introduces himself as the creator who has been watching Truman since the day Truman was born and revealing Truman's life as entertainment for a world beyond. Christof tries to convince Truman to stay within Truman's world where Truman can live happily and without suffering or pain and tries to plant the idea that Truman is still deathly afraid of continuing on. Truman appears deep in thought and Christof suggests that Truman say something. After all, the entire world is watching. Truman looks up and says, In case I don't see you, good afternoon, good evening, and good night. Truman bows as Christof looks on incredulously, opens the door, and leaves. An elated Sylvia jumps up from Sylvia living room floor and leaves Sylvia apartment as the rest of the world cheers tremendously at the finale of the Truman Show. A saddened but resolute Christof removes Truman's head piece and cuts the transmission.