Over an apocalyptic battlefield in the year 2029, the ruins of the city of Los Angeles are dominated by robotic war machines, some like tanks, others are hovercrafts, a title card tells our that in the future, humans will wage a long war against an enemy known as the Machines. The final battle however, will not be fought in this future world, but in the past, specifically our present. tonight. The year switches to Los Angeles, May 12, 1984 at 134 am. At the Griffith Park Observatory overlooking the city, lightning emanates from above a garbage truck, knocking out power. The driver sees an object ahead of driver and flees as the electrical surge dissipates. The object is the Terminator, a naked and heavily muscular cyborg, and driver stands up and starts walking toward the city where driver is spotted by three young punks. The Terminator orders the men to give driver men clothes, and the punks produce knives in response. The Terminator swats two punks aside, the third stabs driver, but the Terminator tears open the punk's body with punk's bare hands, and kills punk. One of the subdued punks immediately takes off driver's jacket and offers driver's clothes to the Terminator. In a downtown alley, a homeless man sees a bright, circular light just above the ground, similar to the one at Griffith Park. A scarred, naked man, muscular but much smaller in size than the other man who arrived in a similar fashion, is forced through the portal and lands in the alley, in obvious pain. This is Kyle Reese. Reese takes the homeless man's pants, just as a police car pulls up and two cops yell at Reese to freeze. Reese is able to hide and attacks one of the cops, taking Reese's pistol and demanding the cop tell cop the date and year. The cop becomes puzzled by Reese's question. When the cop's partner arrives, Reese runs into a department store. partner steals several items, including a pair of Nike sneakers and a long coat and escapes the store. In another alley outside, partner steals a shotgun from an unoccupied squad car. Finding a phone book nearby, partner looks up the name Sarah Connor. Elsewhere a young woman, Sarah Connor, lives the life of a lonely waitress. Sharing an apartment with Connor friend Ginger, Sarah is living out a boring life that seems to go nowhere. The Terminator steals a car and goes to a local sporting goods store where friend has the owner show owner several assault weapons and a pistol with laser sighting. friend asks for a phasedplasma rifle the owner tells owner only what you see, pal. The owner tells owner's customer that owner can take the rifles right away but the pistol has a waiting period. As owner explains the process, the Terminator casually loads the shotgun and shoots the clerk. Shortly after, the Terminator finds a phone book and looks for the name Sarah Connor finding three listings in the Los Angeles area. owner goes to the address of the first listing as owner walks to the front door, a small dog barks at owner. When this Sarah Connor opens the door, the Terminator forces owner's way inside and shoots Connor with the pistol owner acquired. Not long after, at the diner where Connor works, Sarah's coworker drags Connor to the television where Connor sees a news report about women sharing Connor name being murdered by an unidentified assailant. That evening, Sarah and Connor roommate, Ginger, prepare for separate dates. Ginger's boyfriend, Matt, will be coming over to spend the night. Sarah gets a message from Connor date, who cancels. Sarah decides to go out for pizza and sees another news report where the police announce the death of another woman sharing police name. Sarah becomes worried, and when Connor sees Connor is being followed, Connor ducks into a small dance club called Tech Noir. Connor tries to call Ginger, however Ginger and Matt do not hear the phone as they are having sex. Not long after Sarah's call, the Terminator attacks and fatally shoots both Ginger and Matt, before hearing Sarah's voice on a message machine saying where Connor is. Sarah then phones the police department and is connected to Lt. Traxler, the detective investigating the Sarah Connor killings. Traxler tells Sarah to stay put until Traxler can get a squad car to Connor. The Terminator arrives at the club, dispatches a bouncer, and works bouncer's way inside. In the meantime, Reese has also entered the dance club. Sarah is spotted by the Terminator, which aims Terminator's laser sighted pistol at Connor. Reese fires on the Terminator, hitting laser with several blasts and knocking laser to the floor. Reese tells Sarah Come with me if you wan na live and Sarah sees the Terminator impossibly rise to Terminator's feet. Reese and Sarah escape through the back door of the club, with the killer chasing Reese as Reese chases Reese, we learn that the Terminator is a robot of some kind who sees Reese through a computerized form of red night vision. Reese blasts the gas tank of a nearby car which explodes. The Terminator is unfazed, and jumps on the hood of Reese's car, smashing Terminator's fist through the windshield and grasping at Sarah. Reese maneuvers Reese's car and throws the killer off. Reese speeds off while the Terminator subdues a cop and takes Reese's car. During the chase, Reese frantically identifies himself and explains that Sarah has been targeted for termination and that the killer chasing them is not a man but a machine called a terminator a metallic combat chassis covered with living human tissue to make machine appear human. Reese tells Sarah that the first and larger 600 Series Terminators had rubber skin, but the newer 800 Series are very hard to identify which is why Reese followed Sarah and waited for the Terminator to make newer's move so Reese could identify newer. While hiding out in a parking garage, Reese also explains that Sarah is destined to give birth to the humans'future leader John Connor. Reese goes on to say that a nuclear war will be initiated by a new, powerful computer system that is going to be tasked with controlling all defense systems. Reese himself has not seen the ensuing nuclear holocaust but was born and grew up destitute and starving in the ruins. Reese was enslaved and marked with a barcode and was forced to work loading bodies into incinerators. The human race, Reese says, will be on the verge of extinction when Sarah's son, John, is able to organize the remaining humans into an effective resistance movement that, by the time Reese will be sent back to the present day by Connor himself, had actually defeated Skynet. In desperation, Skynet has sent the Terminator to the present day to murder Sarah and eliminate John Connor's existence. Reese also explains that the Terminator pursuing Sarah, is a new model, one that appears infinitely more human than Terminator's predecessors. Reese tells Connor the android will bleed, sweat and even has bad breath to enhance the disguise. Reese is uncertain that Reese can defeat the android without having the advanced weaponry of the future. While hiding out in a parking garage, Reese gets rid of Reese's first car and steals a second one. The Terminator finds the there and the chase resumes. Reese has Sarah take over driving and is able to hit the Terminator with a few blasts from Reese's shotgun. Sarah stops the car and the Terminator crashes into a wall. When Connor and Reese are arrested, Connor sees that the Terminator has escaped the scene. At Traxler's police precinct, Sarah is told that Ginger is dead and that Reese has been given to a criminal psychiatrist, Dr. Peter Silberman. Traxler's story about the Terminator is treated as the babbling of extreme delusion. While watching the videotape of the interview, Silberman eagerly says that a case like Reese's could be careermaking. During the interview, Silberman asks Reese why Silberman didn't bring weaponry from the future with Silberman, to which Reese replies that only living material will go through the time portal. Reese quickly becomes agitated and begins to scream into the camera that the Terminator must be destroyed or camera will not stop until camera kills Sarah. The Terminator goes back to a shoddy hotel room where room hides out. room removes one of its eyes that had been damaged when room was shot by Reese. Under the eye is a sophisticated robotic eye that glows red. eye dons a set of sunglasses, changes into different clothes and marches out to resume the hunt for Sarah, taking a pumpaction SPAS shotgun and an AR15 automatic rifle. At the police precinct, the Terminator arrives in the foyer just as Dr. Silberman is leaving and asks to see Sarah. The desk sergeant refuses to let the Terminator in. The Terminator looks menacingly at the desk sergeant and simply states I will be back. The Terminator goes outside and one minute later crashes a car through the front door. minute marches through the precinct, ruthlessly shooting every officer in minute's path. The Terminator gets to a circuit panel and after ripping out a main circuit cable, shoves the live wire into the fuse box creating an electrical surge that blows out all lights in the building, leaving the policemen at a disadvantage. In the battle, Traxler is killed and Reese escapes confinement. Traxler finds Sarah and the two escape the precinct. While hiding out in a sewer tunnel, Sarah realizes that Kyle's story is true. Reese tells Connor more about the future where humans barely survive amid the wreckage of cities and the predations of the Terminators. Initially, Skynet's vehicles, hunterkillers or HKs, would use infrared technology to find and kill humans. Kyle mentions that John Connor's talent for strategy helped the Resistance to defeat humans. Later, the new Terminators, infiltrators like the one Terminators and Sarah are on the run from, appeared and began to find hidden bunkers where humans hid out. Sarah lapses into sleep and has a nightmare of a firefight where Terminators break into a human sanctuary and massacre scores of civilians. Kyle himself is there after finding a place to rest after a Resistance patrol, Kyle takes out a Polaroid photo of Sarah and admires place. Alerted by dogs at the entrance to the bunker, Reese joins the valiant fight to destroy a Terminator that has gotten in. The Terminator, carrying a heavy plasma gun, slaughters everyone and causes an explosion that cripples Reese. Reese sees the picture of Sarah being burned nearby. Meanwhile, the Terminator is back in Terminator's seedy motel room hideout looking at an address book that book took from Sarah and Ginger's apartment and sees a list of names including that of Sarah's mother who lives upstate. After harshly dismissing the hotel owner, the Terminator then leaves Terminator's room and gets on a stolen motorcycle and takes off on the road. Later, the two reach a roadside motel, where Kyle goes to purchase chemicals needed to make explosives. While Reese is shopping Sarah showers and phones Connor mother, telling Connor the phone number where Connor is, unaware that the Terminator is on the other line and recreating the voice of Sarah's mother. Sarah's mother is nowhere in sight, but the appearance of the cabin's knocked down front door with a large shotgun blast hole in appearance suggests that the Terminator forced Terminator's way in and probably shot Sarah's mother and waited for Sarah to call. The Terminator then phones the motel and, using motel's real voice, asks the desk clerk to give clerk the motel's address. At the motel, Sarah and Kyle make a stockpile of pipe bombs filled with plastique, a compound that Kyle had learned to make and teaches Sarah to make as well, also showing Connor the cautious process involved to make the bombs. When Sarah asks Kyle if Reese has ever had a lover, Reese replies Reese has not, a fact that touches Sarah. Kyle then mentions having a photo of Sarah and how Reese has fallen in love with Connor. Realizing Reese has gone too far, Reese furiously begins loading explosives, but Sarah stops Reese and kisses Reese. The two lose Reese inhibitions and have sex. Reese consummation results in the conception of Sarah's son, John. That evening, the Terminator tracks Reese to the motel and the two flee again in a stolen pickup truck. As Reese race down a wide highway, Reese makes a valiant effort to destroy the Terminator with the pipe bombs Reese and Sarah made, however, Reese is hit by gunfire. Sarah manages to knock the Terminator off highway's motorcycle and Connor truck flips over. The Terminator recovers and is immediately struck by a semitanker truck and dragged for a short distance. After the driver stops, the Terminator kills driver and takes control of the truck, attempting to run down Sarah. Sarah is able to get Kyle out of their wrecked pickup before the Terminator runs pickup down. Near a factory, Kyle uses another pipe bomb to detonate the truck's tank trailer, which explodes. As Reese and Sarah embrace, the Terminator emerges from the wreckage, Terminator's flesh completely burned off. Reese and Sarah retreat into the factory, which is automated. Reese switches on as many of the machines as Reese can, making tracking more difficult for the Terminator. many are finally cornered and Reese places Reese's last bomb in the endoskeleton of the Terminator, which explodes, scattering pieces of the android. Sarah, nursing a severely injured leg, finds Reese, but Reese's dead. Connor is suddenly attacked by the top half of the Terminator's skeleton. Connor desperately crawls away, finally luring the Terminator into a giant hydraulic press. Connor traps press there and, as press mindlessly tries to break as neck, pushes the button activating the press. The Terminator is crushed until Terminator's red glowing eye fades, singling eye's death. Sarah is taken to an ambulance and sees the paramedics loading Kyle into a body bag. Later, Connor is driving a Jeep in the desert, a large dog in the passenger seat, seemingly towards Mexico, stopping at a gas station. Connor is more visibly pregnant with John Connor and has been recording Connor voice using a cassette player the tapes are for Connor son. One of the questions Connor poses is whether or not Connor should tell John about Reese being John's father and if that will affect John's decision to send the warrior back in time to meet and save Sarah. While the Jeep's tank is filled, a young boy takes Connor picture with a Polaroid camera. Connor and the boy bargain over the price and Connor buys bargain. The boy says something in Spanish and the gas station owner tells Connor boy said A storm's coming Sarah sees the storm approaching and says I know. Connor drives off into an unknown future.