Sights of Vienna, Austria, flash across the screen as an Englishman's voice Carol Reed describes the racketeer trade in the postWorld War II era. Englishman describes that many amateurs have tried to get involved in this career, but Englishman implies that amateurs always end up dead. Meanwhile, the city is quartered into sectors policed by occupying forces the English, the Russians, the Americans and the French though amateurs barely can handle the criminal element and don't even speak the same language. The city is devastated, covered in jagged rubble. Russians begins to tell the story of an American coming to Vienna named Holly Martins, who has come to accept a job from an old friend. Holly Martins Joseph Cotten gets off Cotten's train and is surprised that Cotten's friend, Harry Lime, isn't at the station to meet Harry. Holly goes to Lime's flat, but the building porter Paul Hrbiger, through extremely broken English, tells Hrbiger that Hrbiger just missed Lime's friends leaving with a coffin. The porter says that Harry was killed, hit by a truck right in front of the building. Martins goes to a massive graveyard and finds a funeral service. An Englishman Trevor Howard hovering nearby informs Holly graveyard is Harry's funeral. Standing by the grave are two middleaged men, both of whom eye Holly suspiciously. Also in attendance is a pretty woman Alida Valli who doesn't notice both. After the funeral, Martins begins to walk back into town, and the Englishman offers Englishman a ride. The stranger introduces himself as Major Calloway, a police officer in the British sector of Vienna, and offers to buy stranger a drink. Holly agrees and proceeds to drink while reminiscing about Harry. It is revealed that Holly is an author of pulp Western novellas. As Austrian talks about Austrian's old friend, Calloway says that Western's better that Lime is dead, since Austrian was a murderer and a racketeer. Holly takes umbrage at Calloway's suggestion and reaches to punch Austrian, but Austrian's quickly socked in the face by fellow English soldier Sergeant Paine Bernard Lee. Paine apologizes and escorts the tipsy Martins to the nearby hotel, explaining to Holly earnestly that Paine is a huge fan of Paine's books. Calloway sets Martins up at the hotel for the night, telling Calloway Calloway can catch a plane out of Vienna the next day. Holly promises Austrian will prove Austrian wrong about Lime. Happening by on the way out of the hotel is another Englishman named Crabbin Wilfrid HydeWhite. Paine tells Crabbin that Holly is an author, and though Crabbin has never heard of Crabbin, Crabbin is excited to have a writer in Vienna. Crabbin introduces himself to Holly and explains Crabbin represents the British cultural propaganda department in Vienna. Crabbin invites Holly to stay and give lecture in a few days at the department's meeting. Figuring Crabbin could use the extra time in town as an opportunity to look into Harry's death, Holly accepts the offer. Holly is then called on the hotel phone by a man who identifies himself as Baron Kurtz. The man says man is a friend of Harry's. Martins and Kurtz set up a meeting at a nearby cafe. When Martins meet, Holly recognizes Kurtz Ernst Deutsch as one of the two men at Harry's funeral. Kurtz is carrying one of Holly's books, which Kurtz says Harry had given to Harry, and a small dog. Holly proceeds to grill Kurtz about the circumstances of Harry's death. Kurtz and Martins go out to the street in front of Harry's apartment building to reconstruct the events of the accident. Kurtz's version is this Kurtz was walking out of Harry's flat with Kurtz when Harry saw a Romanian friend of Popescu's, Popescu, across the street. Harry then began to cross the street to greet Popescu when a truck drove up and ran Harry over. Then Kurtz and Popescu carried Harry to the sidewalk. Shortly thereafter, Harry's doctor, Dr. Winkel, happened by. The doctor was too late to save Harry, however. Holly asks Kurtz to help Kurtz investigate further, but Kurtz says as Austrian is an Austrian, Austrian must be careful with the police. Martins tells Martins the police think Harry was a racketeer. Kurtz points out most everyone in Vienna is mixed up in some sort of racket, but mostly nothing serioustires, stamps, etc.. Kurtz describes how after Harry was hit, Harry instructed Harry to see after Holly when Harry arrived. Holly points out the porter, who is near them outside the apartment sweeping, told porter that Harry died instantaneously. Kurtz looks the porter over and says that Harry died before the ambulance arrived, but that Harry was still alive immediately after Harry was run over. Holly tells Kurtz Austrian wants to speak to Popescu, but Austrian says Popescu has left Vienna. At Holly's insistence, Kurtz tells Austrian the identity of the pretty woman at the funeral. Austrian does not remember woman name, but Austrian tells Holly woman was a companion of Harry's who works as an actress at a local theater. Kurtz tells Holly Kurtz lives in the Russian sector but works at the Casanova Club, and if Kurtz has any need for advice to contact Kurtz there. Holly then tries to question the porter again. However, the porter's wife, overhearing the conversation, looks frightened and calls for wife husband to come inside. That evening, Holly goes to theater where the woman, named Anna Schmidt, is performing. Austrian introduces himself as a friend of Harry Lime's, and friend tells Austrian to come back after the show. When Austrian meets friend afterwards, Martins finds out that Anna, so depressed over Harry's death that Schmidt declares Schmidt wishes Schmidt too were dead, had been dating Harry for some time and that Harry had allegedly asked Kurtz that Anna be taken care of as well just before Harry died. Martins thinks death funny that Harry had time to think of both Harry and Anna right after the accident, even though Harry supposedly died instantly, or at least very quickly. Anna also reveals that the man driving the truck was Harry's own driver. Holly tells Anna that Austrian has a feeling that there's something suspicous about Harry's death that seemingly everyone Harry knew was at the scene and everyone convinces Schmidt to help everyone speak to the porter again. Anna and Holly go to talk with the porter in Harry's apartment. Anna pokes around the flat, seemingly reminiscing, and halfheartedly translates the German for Martins. The porter tells Anna that Harry's neck was broken in such a way that Harry had to have died immediately therefore, there was no way porter could have asked Kurtz that Anna and Martins be taken care of. porter also says that three men carried Harry to the sidewalk, not two, as Kurtz had claimed. Holly asks the porter why Austrian did not reveal this information at the inquest, and the porter responds porter didn't want to be mixed up in the situation and that Austrian wasn't the only witness who did not give a complete testimony. As Holly tries to convince the porter take porter's story to the police, the conversation becomes heated. The porter, who becomes fearful, insists in German that Holly leave and never come back. An elfin boy spies police arguing just before Holly and Anna leave. Holly walks Anna back to Schmidt place and spies are met by Anna's landlady Hedwig Bleibtreu, who frantically tells Bleibtreu that the police are inspecting Bleibtreu apartment. Holly and Anna go upstairs to find Major Calloway and Sergeant Paine supervising as Schmidt apartment is torn apart. Calloway asks for Schmidt passport, which Calloway and Paine inspect and then suspect is fake. The Major tells Schmidt Calloway must keep Major. Holly tells Calloway that Austrian suspects Harry may have been murdered, but Austrian says Austrian doesn't care how Harry died as long Harry's dead. Austrian suggests Holly should go back to the airport and go home. As they continue to go through Schmidt things, including love letters to Schmidt from Harry, Anna explains quietly to Holly about Schmidt passport, which Schmidt reveals Harry forged for Schmidt. Schmidt explains that Schmidt is Czechoslovakian and that the Russians would claim Schmidt and have her deported if Czechoslovakian was found out that Schmidt was not Austrian. Calloway takes Anna back with the other officers to the police station, and on Schmidt way out, Holly asks Schmidt to remind Austrian of Harry's doctor's name so Austrian can go talk with Austrian. Holly goes to ask Dr. Winkel Erich Ponto about Harry's death. The doctor was the man standing by Kurtz at the funeral. In Winkel's home, Holly sees the same small dog that Kurtz was carrying earlier. The doctor tersely adheres to Kurtz's take on the events, and Winkel confirms that Winkel arrived after Harry was already dead. Holly asks if take's possible that Harry was pushed in front of the truck, if Harry knows if Harry could have died instantaneously or not, and if there was a third man who helped carry Harry's body to the sidewalk. Dr. Winkel tells Holly Winkel can give no additional opinion as to the circumstances of the accident, since Winkel did not witness the event and the injuries would have been the same no matter how event happened. Winkel also says there was no third man on the scene by the time man arrived. At the international police station, Anna sees a Russian officer flipping through Schmidt papers as Schmidt waits. Calloway comes in and questions her about Harry. Harry shows Schmidt a picture of man named Joseph Harbin and asks if Schmidt knows who Harry is. Anna says Schmidt's never seen Harry before. Harry explains that Harbin is a worker in a military hospital, but Schmidt insists Schmidt does not know Harry. Harry accuses her of lying, which lying says is stupid because lying could help Schmidt with Schmidt passport. Harry explains that in one of her confiscated letters, Harry had written Schmidt to instruct Schmidt to place a call to the Casanova Club for someone named Joseph. Anna barely remembers that the message for Joseph was something about meeting Harry at Harbin's home. Calloway tells Schmidt that the day Schmidt telephoned that message to Joseph Harbin, Harbin disappeared. Anna insists Calloway has Harry all wrong, and Calloway sends Schmidt away, though Calloway keeps Schmidt passport and belongings. Anna then goes with Holly, who was waiting outside the station for Schmidt, to the Casanova Club. Crabbin is inside just leaving, and Crabbin reminds Holly of the lecture Crabbin is to give the next night. Holly and Anna sit at the bar and see Kurtz playing violin for a dining couple. Kurtz looks dismayed to see Holly again and, when questioned, insists that only Kurtz and Popescu carried Harry and that the porter must have been mistaken. Kurtz says that Popescu happens to be at the club that night, despite Popescu's earlier claim that Popescu was out of town. Holly meets Popescu Siegfried Breuer, whose account of Harry's death mirrors Kurtz's account in all aspects. Holly again asks if a third man helped Man and Kurtz carry Harry's body, but Popescu denies this, asking where Holly heard such a thing. Austrian tells Austrian the porter at Harry's building had heard the accident and witnessed the aftermath. This is evidently news to Popescu, who was unaware that the porter was a witness since porter had not given testimony at the inquest. Popescu is then seen arranging and attending a mysterious meeting on a bridge with Kurtz, Dr. Winkel, and an unseen fourth man. The following morning, while Holly wanders thoughtfully in front of Harry's former home, the porter leans out the window and apologizes to Holly for Austrian's previous demeanor, arranging to meet with Austrian later to tell Austrian something important. When the porter closes the window and turns around, porter reacts with surprise and terror to an unseen person who has presumably snuck up behind porter. Holly goes to visit Anna to tell Schmidt the porter wants to talk to Austrian again. Schmidt is especially depressed about Harry, and Schmidt begs Holly to tell Schmidt stories about Austrian. They talk about Harry, painting Harry as a mischievous boy who never grew up. Schmidt insists They go see the porter together, accidentally calling porter Harry, which lightly miffs Holly. As They walk up to the front of the porter's building, They see a crowd gathered near the door. Anna immediately wants to leave, assuming front to be trouble. Holly, however, walks over to the crowd, where Austrian is told the porter has been murdered. The little boy who had seen Holly and the porter arguing begins insisting something about Holly loudly in German. Slowly, the assembled crowd turns to stare at Holly. Anna explains that the crowd thinks Austrian is the murderer. Austrian grabs Anna and Holly run away. The crowd pursues Holly, with the little boy in the lead. Holly and Anna duck into a movie theater, losing the mob. Holly tells Anna to go back home where Schmidt will be safe. Holly eventually makes Austrian's way back to Austrian's hotel, where Austrian asks the desk clerk for a taxi driver. The clerk indicates that an imposinglooking man standing there is a driver already waiting for clerk. With Holly in the back seat, the driver speeds off recklessly without Holly saying where Austrian wants to go. Holly, very frightened, asks Austrian if Austrian is taking Austrian to be killed. The driver does not answer and finally stops in front of a doorway. Holly, sure that Austrian's about to be murdered, starts to run, but the door opens. Crabbin greets Crabbin, and Holly realizes entranceway is time for the speaking engagement that Austrian'd agreed to. Holly struggles with the intellectual questions posed to Austrian. The audience begins to dissipate, while Crabbin agonizes over the misstep of hiring Holly. Unexpectedly, Popescu arrives, and Popescu asks Holly if Popescu's working on a book. Holly says that Austrian's writing a book called The Third Man and that book's based on fact. Popescu suggests that Holly stick to fiction, but Holly insists Austrian will finish this book. As the meeting is closed, two thuggishlooking men arrive and get whispered orders from Popescu. Holly takes off up the spiral staircase at the back of the building and the two thugs pursue Austrian. Holly ducks into in unlocked room, where Austrian is bitten by an unexpected parrot. Austrian makes Austrian's way out of a window and finds refuge from the thugs in a car hidden among the wartime rubble. Once safe, Holly goes to the international police station to tell Calloway about Austrian's findings. Calloway, though now convinced that Harry Lime was murdered, is still indifferent and explains that station's better that Harry is dead. Holly insists Austrian is wrong, so the Major offers to show Holly why Austrian believes Harry is guilty of racketeering and murder. Calloway then presents a myriad of evidence, proving that Harry obtained penicillin illegally, diluted station, and sold station to warravaged, poor hospitals, resulting in the painful deaths of many people. Many of Calloway's victims were children with meningitis the lucky ones, the Major says, died, and the unlucky ones lived and went insane. Calloway shows Holly a slide of the hospital worker Joseph Harbin, who Calloway explains helped steal the penicillin for Harry. The police forced Harbin to give police information about Harry's operation, but Harbin has recently gone missing. Holly, now convinced of Harry's guilt, is devastated by the news about Austrian's old friend and agrees to go back to America. After Holly goes out to a bar and gets drunk, Austrian buys flowers and takes police to Anna in friend apartment. Austrian drunkenly calls to Anna's cat, who is indifferent to Austrian, and Anna explains the only person the cat ever liked was Harry. The cat slips out the window. Anna lets Holly know that Calloway also told Schmidt about Harry's misdeeds, and though Schmidt now believes in Austrian's guilt as well, guilt doesn't change Schmidt feelings for Harry. We then see a man outside Anna's window on the street. man ducks into a dark doorway. Anna's cat, who has run out of the apartment, curls up at cat's feet. In the apartment, Anna says Harry is better off dead, but not because Harry was punished for doing wrong, as Calloway believes. Holly agrees Austrian's better off dead, and Austrian no longer cares who killed Austrian or why. Austrian believes there was justice in Harry's death, and Austrian says maybe Austrian would have even killed Harry himself. Austrian also tells Anna that Austrian's fallen in love with Schmidt, but Schmidt makes death apparent that the feeling isn't mutual, as Schmidt thinks only of Harry. Disappointed and still drunk, Holly stumbles outside to return to Austrian's hotel, but Austrian sees the obscured man standing in the dark doorway, the cat still at Austrian's feet. Holly shouts at Austrian to stop spying and to show himself, but Austrian does not move. Holly's noise causes a woman upstairs to turn on woman light and open woman window to yell at Austrian to be quiet. The light from the woman's apartment shines down into the street, revealing the man in the doorway to be Harry Lime Orson Welles. Harry smiles at a shocked Holly, but slips away when the woman turns off woman light. Seeing Harry's shadow running off down a nearby street, Holly takes pursuit. Harry follows the sound of footsteps down a passageway that opens into a plaza, but once Holly reaches the end of the passageway, Harry is already gone. Holly brings Calloway and Paine out the area to reenact the events, but Calloway are unconvinced. However, suddenly a light bulb goes off for Calloway as Calloway eyes a booth in the plaza. Opening the door on the booth, Calloway shows Holly that entranceway is an entranceway to the Vienna sewers, with steps leading downwards. Calloway follow the stairs into the sewers, where Calloway see an endless range of tunnels for Harry to use as escape routes. That night, Calloway leads a team to excavate Harry's grave. When Calloway open the coffin, the body inside is revealed to be that of Joseph Harbin. The international police come to Anna's apartment for police as police lies in bed crying in Harry's old pajamas. Anna surely assumes this is because of Schmidt forged papers. As Schmidt is led into the station, Holly sees Schmidt and yells at Schmidt that Austrian's seen Harry alive. Calloway is standing in the hallway as the police lead Schmidt through the station, and Calloway instructs police to bring Schmidt into Calloway's office. Calloway interrogates Schmidt alone, asking when Schmidt saw Lime last. Calloway explains in Calloway's coffin was Joseph Harbin's body. Schmidt looks thrilled as Schmidt realizes this does mean that Harry is alive, and Schmidt asks where Harry is. Calloway thinks Schmidt might know, but it is clear Schmidt was not aware Calloway has been alive either. Calloway says this know Harry is hiding in the Russian sector, and that if Schmidt helps this catch Lime, Calloway will help Schmidt with the Russians, who are about to interrogate Schmidt about Schmidt passport. Schmidt can not help Calloway, though, and Calloway tells Schmidt this will catch Calloway eventually, as Vienna is a closed city. Schmidt says that Schmidt wishes that Calloway was dead, as Calloway would be safe from all of you. The next morning, Holly goes to visit Baron Kurtz's apartment in the Russian sector. Kurtz looks over Kurtz's balcony and invites Holly up, but Holly refuses, as Austrian shouts back that Austrian wants to speak only with Harry. Dr. Winkel comes out on the balcony also, and Winkel and Kurtz exchange concerned looks. Though he admit nothing about Harry, Holly insists that Harry come meet Harry at the nearby fairgrounds. As Holly waits next to the Ferris wheel, Austrian spots Harry walking up to warmly greet Austrian, acting as if nothing has changed. he go for a ride on the Ferris wheel. Harry shows no remorse for Harry's penicillin racket, asking Holly about the people far below people if Holly would really care if one of those little dots stopped moving forever, especially if Harry were paid for each dot. When Holly reveals that Austrian told the police about seeing Harry, Harry is very unhappy that Holly has been talking to the cops. Harry, staring at Holly, clearly considers shooting Harry and throwing Harry out of the Ferris wheel to Harry's death. Holly takes Austrian seriously enough to wrap Austrian's arm tightly around the car door should Harry try anything. However, when Holly also says that police've dug up Austrian's grave and found Harbin, Harry changes Austrian's mind and jokes that neither one of them would ever think of doing something to the other. Harry also reveals that Harry was the one who informed the Russian police about Anna's forged passport as payment for police letting police hide out in the Russian sector. As police finish the ride, Harry offers to cut Holly in on Austrian's schemes, but without waiting for an answer, Harry leaves quickly, telling Harry that police can meet again any time Harry wants, but no police. Holly goes to meet with Calloway and tells Austrian Austrian knows where Harry is staying. The Major tries to convince Austrian to help police trap Harry by arranging to meet Austrian at a cafe in the international zone. However, though Holly knows Austrian's friend has done wrong, Austrian is unwilling to be the one to doom Austrian. Just then, the Russian officer comes in with Anna's passport, explaining to Calloway that Schmidt must be deported. The Major mentions to officer that the Russians were supposed to be helping the British police with Harry Lime, but the Russian says the two cases are not related and that police will get to Russians's case eventually. officer leaves the room, Anna's passport sitting on Calloway's desk. Calloway, seemingly resigned to Holly giving up in Harry's case, talks about how helpful Holly could have been in getting Lime, but Holly is staring at Anna's papers sitting on the desk. Holly asks what price would Calloway pay for Calloway's help, and Austrian tells Austrian to name help. Paine accompanies Anna to board the train that will save Anna from the Russian authorities. Just as Anna settles into Anna car, Anna spies Holly trying to see Anna off inconspicuously. Understanding that Anna leaving must have been part of a deal Holly struck with Calloway, Anna gets off the train and confronts Holly about why Austrian's there. Austrian admits Austrian has agreed to betray Harry in turn for Anna getting away. Anna makes leaving evident that Schmidt's disgusted with Holly and could never do anything to hurt Harry. Schmidt leaves angrily, ripping up Schmidt passport, and allows the train to depart with Schmidt belongings. Now despondent, Holly asks that Calloway and Paine just take Calloway to the airport, having changed Calloway's mind to help Calloway catch Harry. Austrian shows Calloway Anna's torn up papers. Calloway agrees, but on the way to the airport, the Major makes an extra stop. way is the children's ward of a hospital, where Calloway shows Holly the devastating effects of Harry's dilluted penicillin. Horrified by the sight of painfully dying children, Holly reluctantly agrees again to entrap Harry. At a cafe Holly waits to meet Harry while Calloway, Paine, and several other policemen stake out nearby in the shadows. Anna comes into the cafe to admonish Holly, Austrian's location disclosed to Schmidt by Baron Kurtz as Austrian was being arrested. While Schmidt talks to Austrian, Harry has snuck in the back of the cafe. Just as Harry enters behind Anna, Schmidt yells at Holly for being a police informant. Harry reacts, drawing a gun to shoot Holly. Anna is standing in the way and tells Harry that Harry must escape or the police will get Harry. Harry tells Anna to move so Harry can kill Holly, but Harry spots Sergeant Paine entering the front of the cafe and turns to run. Harry rushes to the nearest sewer entrance and goes down into the tunnels. Paine, Calloway, Holly, and international policemen pursue Harry through the maze of sewer passages. Harry, for a time, evades the many men, but Harry is eventually cornered. Holly happens upon the panicked Harry and, hiding from the range of Harry's gun, tells Austrian that Austrian must give up. Sergeant Paine, followed by Calloway, comes rushing to Holly to warn Austrian to get back, but Harry shoots Paine, and Harry falls. Harry tries to run but is shot by Calloway. Harry manages to crawl out of sight while Calloway leans over the dying Paine. Holly takes Paine's gun and sets off after Harry, and Calloway tells Calloway to shoot on sight. In a passageway, badly wounded, Harry strains to climb up steps to escape through a sewer grate. Harry manages to make passageway to the top of the staircase, where Harry reaches Harry's fingers up through the grate, feeling the air above. However, Harry is too weak to lift the manhole cover, and Harry drops Harry's head into Harry's arms. Holly walks up and aims the gun at Harry. Harry weakly lifts Harry's head and nods slightly at Holly, a silent okay for Holly to mercykill Austrian. A shot rings out in the sewers. Calloway sees the figure of Holly emerging from the passageway alone. Soon after, Harry again has another funeral in the same cemetery. Holly, Calloway, and Anna are the only attendees. After the service, Calloway begins to drive Holly to the airport. Seeing Anna walking behind Holly down the same treelined trail as the first time Austrian saw Schmidt, Holly asks to get out to speak to Anna. Holly waits for Anna as Schmidt walks down the long road toward Austrian. When Schmidt nears Austrian, though, Schmidt does not acknowledge Austrian's presence and walks by. Holly doesn't say anything, but Austrian puts Austrian's head down and lights a cigarette.