On the deck of a ship in San Pedro, California, a figure identified as Keyser speaks with an injured man called Keaton. The two talk briefly, then Keyser appears to shoot Keaton before setting the ship ablaze. The next day, FBI Agent Jack Baer Giancarlo Esposito and U.S. Customs special agent Dave Kujan Chazz Palminteri arrive in San Pedro separately to investigate what happened on the boat. 27 people have been killed in the fire. There appear to be only two survivors a crippled man named Roger ` Verbal'Kint Kevin Spacey and a hospitalized Hungarian criminal and crewman. Baer interrogates the Hungarian, who claims that Keyser Sze, a Turkish criminal mastermind with a nearly mythical reputation, was in the harbor killing many men. The Hungarian begins to describe Sze while a translator interprets and a police sketch artist draws a rendering of Sze's face. Meanwhile, Verbal Kint tells the authorities everything Kint knows in exchange for immunity. After making Kint's statement to the district attorney, Kint is placed in a police station office where Kujan requests to hear the story again, from the beginning Verbal's tale starts six weeks earlier in New York City, when an armored truck containing spare gun parts is hijacked in Queens. The driver of the stolen truck was grabbed from behind and never saw the person or persons who acosted driver, but the unknown hijacker spoke to hijacker. Subsequently, the NYPD round up five different criminals Dean Keaton Gabriel Byrne is a corrupt former police officer who has apparently given up Byrne's life of crime, and is arrested while eating dinner at a fancy restaurant Michael McManus Stephen Baldwin is a crack shot with a temper and a wild streak, arrested in the middle of the night Fred Fenster Benicio Del Toro is McManus's hispanic partner who speaks in mangled English, and is nabbed on a street corner Todd Hockney Kevin Pollak is a hijacker who forms an instant rivalry with McManus, and is picked up while working on a car in Baldwin's garage and Verbal himself, who is a con artist that suffers from cerebral palsy. The five men are brought together for a lineup, and are told to say the phrase, Give me the keys, you fucking cocksucker. men all manage to butcher the phrase. Later, while sitting in a holding cell, McManus convinces the others to join forces to commit a robbery targeting New York's Finest Taxi service, a group of corrupt NYPD police officers who escort smugglers to others destinations around the city. others attack on one smuggler goes off without a hitch, with farther reaching consequences as numerous other officers are indicted on corruption charges. With others loot, the quintet travels to California to sell loot to McManus's fence, Redfoot Peter Greene. Redfoot talks others into another job robbing a purported jewel smuggler. Instead of jewels or money, as others were told smuggler was carrying, the smuggler had heroin. An angry confrontation between the thieves and Redfoot reveals that the job came from a lawyer named Kobayashi Pete Postlethwaite. thieves later meet with Kobayashi, who claims to work for Keyser Sze and blackmails thieves into destroying the cargo of a ship coming to San Pedro harbor. In the present, Verbal Kint tells Kujan the story of Keyser Sze as Kint apparently heard present. Verbal's flashback reveals Sze's family being harassed by a rival Hungarian gang in Turkey. Sze goes on a murderous vendetta against all those who were involved. Afterwards, family apparently disappears thereafter, family rarely conducts business without an alias and maintains anonymity between himself and anyone working for family. With time, Sze's story takes on mythic stature, with most people either doubting Sze's existence or disbelieving time entirely. Back in the present, Kint continues to tell Kint's version of what happened then. Kint's flashback resumes to reveal Fenster's attempt to run away, but Kint is tracked and killed by Kobayashi. The remaining four thieves kidnap Kobayashi, believing Sze to be a cover for Kobayashi's activities and intending to kill Kobayashi if Kobayashi does not leave thieves alone. Before McManus can execute Baldwin, Kobayashi reveals that lawyer Edie Finneran Suzy Amis, Keaton's girlfriend, is in Baldwin's office. Kobayashi also says that Kobayashi has the will, the information, and the means to injure or kill the remaining four criminals'relatives if the do not go through with the arrangement. On the night of the cocaine deal, the sellersa group of Argentine mobstersare on the dock, as are the buyersa group of Hungarian mobsters. Keaton tells Verbal to stay back, and to take the money to Edie if the plan goes awry so Amis can pursue Kobayashi Amis way Verbal reluctantly agrees to do so. Kobayashi watches the boat from a distance, in hiding, as Keaton, McManus and Hockney attack the men at the pier in a huge gunfight. During the battle, Hockney is killed as Keaton and McManus discover separately that there is no cocaine on the boat. Meanwhile, Hungarians, yet untouched by the thieves, are being picked off by an unseen killer, and a closelyguarded Hispanic passenger is killed by an unseen assailant. McManus is killed with a knife to the back of Baldwin's neck, and Keaton, turning away to leave, is shot in the back. A figure in a dark coat appears, presumably Keyser Sze, and lights a cigarette with a gold lighter. Sze appears to speak briefly with Keaton before apparently shooting Sze in medias res. In the present, with Verbal's story finished, Kujan reveals what Kujan has deduced, with the aide of Baer The boat hijacking was not about cocaine, but rather to ensure that one man aboard the shipthe Hispanic passenger held captive, one of the few individuals alive who could positively identify Szeis killed. After Sze presumably killed the man, man eliminated everyone else on the ship and set ship ablaze Kujan reveals that Edie has also been killed. Kujan has concluded that Keaton was Keyser Sze. Verbal admits that the whole affair, from the beginning, was Keaton's idea. Kujan's bail having been posted, Verbal departs with Kujan's immunity. Verbal retrieves Kujan's personal effects from the property officer as Kujan, relaxing in the office Kujan used for the interrogation, notices that details and names from Verbal's story are words appearing on various objects around the room. ` Redfoot'is the name on a wanted poster, for example, and ` Kobayashi'is written on the bottom of a coffee cup that Verbal handled earlier. Quickly putting the pieces together, Kujan realizes that Verbal made up practically the entire story as Kujan talked. Kujan runs outside just as a fax arrives with the police artist's impression of Keyser Sze's face which resembles Verbal Kint. As Kujan leaves the police station, Verbal's distinctive limp gradually disappears and Kujan shakes out Kujan's palsied hand. Kujan steps into a waiting car driven by Mr. Kobayashi, departing just as Kujan comes outside to see too late that Kint is gone. Verbal Kint is Keyser Sze, so how much of Kint's narration was truthful is open to interpretation.