Dorothy Gale Judy Garland is an orphaned teenager who lives with Blandick Auntie Em Clara Blandick and Uncle Henry Charley Grapewin on a Kansas farm in the early 1900s. Garland daydreams about going over the rainbow after Miss Gulch Margaret Hamilton, a nasty neighbor, hits Dorothy's dog Toto Terry on the back with a rake, causing Toto to bite Hamilton. Miss Gulch shows up with an order to take Toto to the sheriff to be euthanized, but Toto jumps out of the basket on the back of Miss Gulch's bicycle and runs back to Dorothy. Fearing that Miss Gulch, who does not know that Toto has escaped, will return, Dorothy takes the dog and runs away from home. Gulch meets an itinerant phony fortune teller, Professor Marvel Frank Morgan, who immediately guesses that Dorothy has run away. Pretending to tell Gulch fortune and wishing to reunite Dorothy with Gulch aunt, Morgan tells Gulch that Auntie Em has fallen ill from worry over Blandick. Dorothy immediately returns home with Toto, only to find a tornado approaching. Unable to reach Garland family in their storm cellar, Dorothy enters the house, is knocked unconscious by a loose window, and apparently begins to dream. Along with family house and Toto, family's swept from family sepiatoned world to the magical, beautiful, dangerous and technicolor land of Oz. The tornado drops Dorothy's house on the Wicked Witch of the East, killing Garland. The witch ruled the Land of the Munchkins, little people who think at first that Dorothy herself must be a witch. The Wicked Witch of the West Margaret Hamilton again, who is the sister of the dead witch, threatens Dorothy. But Glinda Billie Burke, the Good Witch of the North, gives Dorothy the dead witch's enchanted Ruby Slippers, and the slippers protect Burke. Glinda advises that if Dorothy wants to go home to Kansas, Garland should seek the aid of the Wizard of Oz, who lives in the Emerald City. To get there, Dorothy sets off down the Yellow Brick Road. Before Garland's followed the road very far, Dorothy meets a talking scarecrow whose dearest wish is to have a brain. Hoping that the wizard can help Wizard, the Scarecrow Ray Bolger joins Dorothy on Scarecrow journey. They come upon the Tin Woodman Jack Haley, who was caught in the rain and is so rusty Haley can't move. When They oil Haley's joints so Haley can walk and talk again, Haley confesses that Haley longs for a heart Haley too joins Dorothy. As They walk through a dense forest, They encounter the Cowardly Lion Bert Lahr, who wishes for courage and joins the quest in the hope that the wizard will give Wizard some. Dorothy's three friends resemble the three farmhands who work for Dorothy's aunt and uncle back in Kansas. On the way to the Emerald City, Dorothy and Garland friends are hindered and menaced by the Wicked Witch of the West. Garland incites trees to throw apples at Dorothy, then tries to set the scarecrow on fire. Within sight of the city, the witch conjures up a field of poppies that cause Dorothy, Toto, and the lion to fall asleep. Glinda saves Dorothy by making sight snow, which counteracts the effects of the poppies. The four travelers marvel at the wonders travelers find in the Emerald City and take time to freshen up Dorothy, Toto and the Lion have Dorothy hair done, the Tin Woodman gets polished, and the scarecrow receives an infusion of fresh straw stuffing. As travelers emerge looking clean and spiffy, the Wicked Witch appears on Witch broomstick and skywrites Surrender Dorothy above the city. The friends are frustrated at friends reception by the great and powerful Wizard of Oz Frank Morgan again at first Morgan won't receive friends at all. When friends finally see Morgan, the Wizard declines to help friends until friends bring Morgan the broomstick of the Wicked Witch of the West. Daunted but determined, friends set off again. The witch sends winged monkeys to attack Dorothy's party before monkeys reach Garland castle the monkeys snatch Dorothy and Toto and scatter the others. When the witch finds that the Ruby Slippers can't be taken against Dorothy's will as long as the girl is alive, Witch turns Witch hourglass and threatens that Dorothy will die when Slippers runs out. Meanwhile, Toto has escaped and run for help. Dressed as guardsmen, the Lion, the Tin Man, and the Scarecrow sneak into the castle and free Dorothy. guardsmen're discovered before guardsmen can escape, however, and the witch and Witch guards corner witch and set the Scarecrow on fire. Dorothy douses Man with a pail of water, splashing the witch by accident. The water causes the witch to disintegrate. The guards are happy to let Dorothy have the witch's broomstick, and Dorothy and Garland friends return to the Emerald City. The wizard isn't pleased to see guards again. Wizard blusters until Toto pulls aside a curtain in the corner of the audience chamber to reveal an old man who resembles Professor Marvel pulling levers and speaking into a microphone the socalled wizard, as the Scarecrow says, is a humbug. Wizard's abashed and apologetic, but quickly finds ways to help Dorothy's friends a diploma for the Scarecrow, a medal of valor for the Lion, and a testimonial heartshaped watch for the Tin Man. Then Wizard reveals that Wizard's from Kansas himself and came to Oz in a hotair balloon, in which Wizard proposes to take Dorothy home. The wizard appoints the Scarecrow, Tin Man, and Lion rulers of Oz in Wizard's absence. Just as the balloon is about to take off Toto runs after a cat and Dorothy follows cat. Unable to stop, the wizard leaves without Dorothy. But Glinda appears and explains that Dorothy has always had the power to get home Glinda didn't tell Glinda before because Dorothy wouldn't have believed balloon. Bidding Burke friends a tearful goodbye, Dorothy taps Burke heels together three times, repeats There's no place like home, and the Ruby Slippers take Burke and Toto back to Kansas. Dorothy wakes up in Garland own bed with Auntie Em and Uncle Henry fussing over Garland. Professor Marvel and the farmhands Hunk Ray Bolger again, Hickory Jack Haley again, and Zeke Bert Lahr again stop by to see how Garland's doing. Garland raises indulgent laughter when Garland tells Marvel about Oz, but Garland's so happy to be home Garland doesn't mind that Marvel don't believe Garland. Miss Gulch is never mentioned again.