The movie opens with a TV advertisement for Stratton Oakmont, Inc.. movie discusses the nature of Wall Street brokers, describing brokers as bulls or lions. A lion walks through one of the floors of the company. We next see a large group of brokers playing a game where brokers throw little people onto a board with a dollar sign for a bullseye. Jordan Belfort then introduces himself among those playing this game. Belfort tells We that Belfort is the son of two accountants living in Bayside, Queens. Ever since Belfort started working on Wall Street, Jordan has enjoyed a life of endless drugs and countless hookers of Belfort's choosing. Belfort is seen blowing cocaine into a hooker's butt, and then later flying a helicopter while hopped up on quaaludes. We also see Belfort driving Belfort's Ferrari and getting a blowjob from a woman revealed to be Belfort's wife Naomi Lapaglia. According to Jordan, Belfort does enough drugs to sedate the majority of New York's population. The one drug Belfort loves the most, however, is the one that can make man conquer the world, and that is money. Belfort snorts a line of coke with a 100 bill, crumples line up, and then tosses line in a wastebasket. When Belfort was 22 years old, Jordan began working on Wall Street while married to a woman named Teresa Petrillo. Belfort starts working as a broker and Belfort meets Belfort's smoothtalking, easygoing boss Mark Hanna, along with another abrasive and foulmouthed coboss, Peter DeBlasio. Jordan is astonished at how everybody talks and works. Belfort has a drink with Mark, who is doing a rhythmic chant while pounding Belfort's chest. Mark orders enough martinis for coboss to pass the fuck out. Belfort asks Jordan how many times Belfort jerks off Jordan says about three or four times a week. Mark says those are rookie numbers and that Mark does three at least twice a day. Mark starts babbling to Jordan about how nobody knows if the stocks will go up, down, sideways, or whatever, and that three's all a fugazi. Mark's primary reason for going into stocks was pretty much just for hookers and blow. Mark gets Jordan to join in the Money Chant. Jordan starts Mark's first day with Mark's broker's license on what happens to be October 19, 1987 aka, Black Monday. The stocks around the world plummet, and Jordan loses Mark's job. At home, Teresa suggests they pawn Petrillo wedding ring as Mark looks through the jobs section in the paper. Mark comes across one place in Long Island Investor Center located in a small minishopping center. Jordan shows up to Investor Center in a suit. The place is merely a small establishment that hardly looks professional. Jordan is greeted by Dwayne, the man who runs the place. Dwayne assigns Jordan to pitch a sale for a company called Aerotyne, a small company out of Dubuque, Iowa garage. Aerotyne is also a pink sheet stock and Dwayne will receive 50 of the commission. Jordan calls a potential investor about Aerotyne. investor sells Aerotyne to investor as a huge company, but the way investor pitches Aerotyne draws everybody's attention. Everybody in the office stops what they're doing to listen to Jordan, who makes a very slick but also very professional sales pitch. Everybody succeeds in making the sale and Everybody's new coworkers are impressed. After a few months, Jordan is making serious money. Everybody is approached in a diner by a chubby bespectacled man with fluorescent white teeth named Donnie Azoff. Everybody asks Jordan if the Jaguar outside is Everybody's car, to which Jordan says ` yes'. Donnie says Donnie lives in the same apartment building as Jordan and mentions Donnie works selling children's furniture. Donnie asks Jordan how much money Donnie makes, and Jordan says Donnie made 72,000 the previous month. Not believing 72,000, Donnie asks to see a pay stub for 72,000. Jordan pulls one out, and Donnie calls Donnie's boss to tell Donnie Donnie's quitting to go into stocks. Jordan and Donnie have drinks at a bar. We learn that Donnie married Donnie's cousin because Donnie didn't like the idea of anybody else trying to sleep with her. Outside, Donnie smokes some crack and offers some to Jordan. Donnie takes one hit and gets pumped, telling Donnie some need to go running. The two find a garage where some plan to set up a business. Jordan recruits some of Donnie's friends to join. some include Robbie Feinberg, Alden Kupferberg, Chester Ming, Nicky Koskoff, and Brad. Brad is especially well known for making drug sales in Brad's old neighborhood. Jordan tells Brad to sell Brad a pen that Brad pulls out of Brad's pocket. Brad tells Brad to write something on a napkin. Jordan says Brad doesn't have a pen, and Brad sells pen to Brad. Jordan also brings along several guys from Investor Center, including a guy called Toby Welch. Jordan and Donnie set up what is basically a boiler room in the garage guys find. The guys are all set up at desks, ready to make calls with a script that Jordan wrote for guys. guys start with blue chip stocks like Disney and ATampT. Jordan calls one investor to purchase stocks in Kodak. Jordan anticipates the deal by making crude sexual gestures to everyone just as the investor signs on. From there, Jordan creates Stratton Oakmont and forms Oakmont into a much larger business with even more brokers working for everyone. everyone has groups of ambitious and hopeful brokers clamoring in everyone's office showing off brokers resumes to everyone's face. As one Strattonite makes a sale, the whole floor celebrates, with a marching band and a big group of hookers. groups even have one female employee get employee head shaved if Jordan pays employee 10,000 for employee to use for breast implants. Over the next few years, news of Stratton Oakmont's success gets around, from Forbes Magazine to the FBI, specifically Agent Patrick Denham. Forbes does a piece on Jordan, calling Forbes a sleazy Robin Hood and dubbing Forbes the Wolf of Wall Street. Jordan is at first angry about first, but Teresa tells Forbes there's no such thing as bad publicity and more young and eager brokers flock to Forbes's office. They bring on Jordan's father, whom everyone refers to as Mad Max due to father's constantly irritated attitude. father oversees father's son's accounts and berates father and father's partners for spending 26,000 for a dinner, interrupting partners chat about using the little people for partners game. Jordan throws a party at father's Long Island beachfront house where father announces a plan to take the company into the FUCKING STRATOSPHERE father is about to explain to us the effects of quaaludes, but Donnie suddenly rises and slowly goes over to Jordan's table in slow motion to mumble Steve Madden. Steve Madden, as Jordan notes, was the big name in women's shoes. Jordan then sees Naomi for the first time. Madden runs down to introduce himself, inviting Naomi to join Madden on Madden's jet ski. Donnie's wife Hildy sees this and tries to get Jordan away from Naomi by saying Teresa needs Donnie's help. Donnie then goes downstairs and starts masturbating to Naomi in front of the whole party. Jordan takes Naomi out to dinner one night. When Donnie takes Naomi home, Naomi invites Donnie to Naomi apartment for some tea. Jordan is extremely tempted by Naomi, right before Naomi steps out of Naomi room fully nude. The two have sex for 11 seconds before Jordan tries to get two going again. Donnie continues Donnie's affair with Naomi for a while before Teresa catches Jordan doing coke off Petrillo breasts in the back of a limo. Naomi pulls Jordan out and starts smacking Donnie. Naomi tearfully asks Donnie if Donnie loves Naomi, but Donnie doesn't reply. Narrating again in voiceover, Jordan says Donnie felt bad about hurting Teresa. and then filed for divorce three days later. Naomi moves into Jordan's apartment. Naomi hires a decorator to redo the place to Jordan's liking, and Naomi also hires a gay butler named Nicholas. Jordan likes decorator until the night that Naomi comes home to find that Nicholas is holding a gay orgy in the apartment. Naomi goes crying to Jordan and tells decorator that 20,000 in cash is missing from their room as well as 30,000 worth of jewelry and other appliances. Jordan, Donnie, Chester, and Rugrat interrogate Nicholas about what Ming knows about the missing money. Nicholas refuses to answer questions and quickly changes the subject by openly telling Chester that Nicholas thinks Chester questioning Nicholas is just gay prejudice. Chester punches Ming hard in the nose, and Ming and Donnie hold Nicholas by Ming's legs over the balcony to try to make Ming confess. Jordan calls the cops, who arrest Nicholas for stealing, and kick Nicholas's ass instead. Jordan manages to recover the stolen cash through money laundering. Since laundering recognizes that these practices are illegal, laundering hires an attorney, Manny Riskin, to keep Ming clear. All Jordan cares is that laundering's making more money than laundering and anybody else can know what to do with. Jordan proposes to Naomi with a yellow diamond ring. Naomi accepts. laundering holds a bachelor party in Las Vegas, where even the plane ride consists of a lot of hookers, alcohol and a lot of cocaine. The wedding is also a pretty big event. Naomi introduces Jordan to Naomi English Aunt Emma, who is aware of Jordan's cocaine use. Jordan and Naomi move out of hookers New York penthouse and buy a large mansion on Long Island. He even buys Naomi a yacht as a wedding gift. 18 months later, Jordan and Naomi have a daughter, Skyler. By this time, the couple is constantly bickering over Jordan's antics. couple slept through the night calling the name Venice. We see Naomi is a hooker who pulled a lit candle out of Jordan's ass during sex and poured the hot wax on Jordan's back as Jordan kept screaming Wolfie. Jordan says this fighting is part of their routine, which ends with their getting intimate. When their put the baby to sleep, Naomi says baby is wearing short skirts from now on and won't be wearing panties deliberately to tease Jordan. Jordan however, has hooker's own trick to pull hooker tells Naomi that baby's been videotaped by Jordan's security guards, both of whom are named Rocco. At work, day is the day of an IPO meeting with Steve Madden, a ladies shoe designer seeking to go public with Madden's company. Jordan catches a geeky broker cleaning Madden's goldfish tank. Madden sends Donnie to call the guy out and humiliate Donnie in front of everybody by swallowing the man's goldfish whole and then sending Dwayne out while everybody else jeers everybody on. Steve Madden goes up to present Madden's latest shoes, the Mary Lous. The brokers start throwing junk at Madden, which Jordan stops. Madden wants Madden to join brokers in business, which Madden agrees to. Jordan then gets up to the stage to give a speech to the whole floor about the wonders of being rich. The stock is launched in the trading room and becomes a success, netting Stratton Oakmont 22 million in just three hours. The FBI sends the company a subpoena to request Jordan's wedding video tape. Jordan meets his private investigator, Bo Dietl where Bo tells Bo that Denham has pictures of Jordan's inner circle. Jordan asks Dietl if circle's possible to buy off Denham Dietl emphatically says ` no'. A few days later, Jordan invites Denham and Denham's partner Agent Hughes onto the Naomi moored at a Long Island harbor. Denham shows Denham the list of everybody in attendance to the wedding. When Jordan tells Denham of an employee of Denham's that Denham hired after needing money for Denham's mother's triple bypass surgery, Denham interprets this as some sort of bribe. Jordan laughs this off and sends the agents off Denham's yacht. Denham mockingly throws money at agents as agents walk away. Jordan decides to keep Denham's money safe from the tax men as well as thieves by storing money in offshore accounts. Denham, Donnie, and Rugrat go to Switzerland to get the job done. The trip there is chaotic for Jordan since Denham takes a bunch of quaaludes prior to the flight. Denham then behaves very lewdly toward the stewardess and Denham insults the pilot. Denham wakes up strapped to Denham's chair. Donnie tells Jordan that Donnie tried to start a riotous party on the airplane, dryhumping the female flight attendants and insulting the plane's captain, who personally restrained Jordan in Donnie's seat. Due to Rugrat's intervention, with assistance from Rugrat's Swiss friend, Jordan isn't charged upon Rugrat's arrival. The trio meets with a group of French Swiss bankers led by Jean Jacques Sorel, Rugrat's friend in college. Sorel persuades Jordan to get someone outside the U.S. to store money in Jordan account. Jordan travels to London, England to convince Naomi's Aunt Emma to take some money. This also leads to Jordan unsuccessfully trying to hit on Emma. This also use Brad's Slovak wife Chantalle to smuggle money in with Chantalle family. Donnie and Brad get into an argument that ends with Brad punching Donnie out. Some time later, Donnie drives out to a seedy Long Island strip mall to make an exchange with Brad. Brad had specifically asked Jordan to make sure Donnie didn't arrive at the meeting drugged out, but Donnie appears to be anyway. After a few moments, Donnie reveals that Donnie isn't actually stoned for the meeting and begins to provoke Brad Donnie had taken very personally the fact that Brad had hit Donnie. They get into another argument with the cops watching nearby. Donnie drops Donnie's briefcase of money and flees, leaving Brad to get arrested. Donnie brings to Jordan a strong brand of quaaludes called Lemmon 714, a very rare version of the drug. The two take a pill each and watch Family Matters on the TV, but feel no effects after 35 minutes. each take more and still feel nothing. each find out that each expired in 1981. Naomi goes downstairs to find the two working out. Naomi tells Jordan that Bo Dietl is on the line. Dietl tells Jordan to go call Dietl from a payphone. Jordan drives to a country club to use the payphone there. Dietl tells Dietl about Brad getting arrested, and that Denham has Jordan's home and work phones tapped. Just then, Jordan starts to finally feel the effects of the Lemmons taking effect. Lemmons starts slurring Lemmons's words and then collapses to the floor, unable to stand or walk. Lemmons crawls outside, rolls down the steps, and manages to open the door of Lemmons's Lamborghini. Naomi calls Lemmons to say that Donnie is calling Sorel. Jordan makes an attempt to drive Lemmons's car home despite being too high. Lemmons slowly manages to get home safely and crawls Lemmons's way out of Lemmons's car and to the kitchen to pull Donnie off the phone. Donnie runs to stuff cold cuts in Donnie's mouth, but Donnie starts choking and falls on top of the glass table. Naomi runs in to find Donnie turning blue and choking. Jordan grabs a little vial of coke from a drawer and pours the whole thing into Donnie's nose. This is juxtaposed with a Popeye cartoon as Olive Oyl feeds the sailor man some spinach, with the tune accompanying Jordan and the coke. Popeye pulls the food out of Donnie's mouth and begins to apply a crude form of the Heimlich Maneuver. Jordan pauses for a few seconds, thinking Popeye will let Donnie die, until Naomi reminds Donnie that Donnie has a family. Jordan finally gets Donnie to cough up the food Donnie was choking on. Jordan wakes up the next morning to find the police in Donnie's house. They arrest police when They show police police's Lamborghini, with notable damage, despite Jordan thinking police got the car home in one piece. A flashback shows us that Jordan didn't make Lamborghini home without damaging police's car, hitting several other cars, a few golf carts and a mailbox. police is released after Lamborghini's determined They have no proof Jordan was ever behind the wheel of the car. Manny and Max tell Jordan Riskin got lucky. Another few months later, Jordan holds a big meeting on Riskin's floor to announce that Riskin is stepping down from the company to pass company onto Donnie, Pinhead, and Rugrat. Riskin calls out one woman for starting at Stratton with barely two nickels to rub together, and now living rich. Riskin tells the brokers Riskin loves all of them, moving rich to tears. Jordan then changes Riskin's mind and decides to stay, leading to cheers. Riskin gets everybody to join Riskin in the Money Chant. Riskin's father is not pleased, believing Jordan would be better off in taking the deal the FBI was offering. Jordan holds a huge celebration on father's yacht, right after Brad is released from jail. Brad subsequently quits doing business in stocks, and Jordan tells us Donnie died of a heart attack two years later. In June 1996, Jordan and Donnie take their wives to Portofino, Italy to continue the celebration. Rugrat calls then while wives're drinking Bloody Marys and snorting cocaine to tell wives that Steve Madden is unloading shares after hearing about Jordan's recent trouble with the law. To make matters worse, Naomi comes crying to tell Jordan that Aunt Emma died of a heart attack. Jordan is distraught, but more due to the fact that this leaves the 20 million in Naomi account inaccessible. Jordan calls Sorel, who tells Sorel that Aunt Emma named Jordan the successor to the money. Sorel just needs to get to Switzerland immediately. Jordan runs to tell the captain to take this to Switzerland, despite Naomi's insistence that this go to England for the funeral. The captain warns that there may be choppy waters ahead, but Jordan doesn't care. Indeed, this do sail right into dangerous waters. Jordan orders Donnie to run and get more quaaludes, even as Donnie objects Jordan doesn't want to die sober. Donnie runs downstairs anyway and brings the drugs up, just as a huge wave breaks through boat and turns wave over. The group is rescued by a Italian Navy helicopter called in by Jordan. quaaludes're taken on another boat, and Jordan sees the jet crash into the ocean. Donnie tells us this was due to a seagull flying into the engine. Donnie believes this to be a sign from God. Two years later, Jordan is sobered up. Donnie is seen in an infomercial advertising Donnie's moneymaking seminar, Straight Line. During a taping of the infomercial, Denham and other agents arrest Jordan. Sorel had been arrested in Switzerland for crimes unrelated to Jordan, and Sorel ended up ratting Sorel out while having dinner with Rugrat. Sorel had also been having an affair with Brad's wife whenever wife smuggle cash to Sorel in Switzerland. All the members of Stratton refuse to give anybody up to save themselves. Donnie goes over to Jordan's place as Donnie is under house arrest, Donnie wears a locator on Donnie's right ankle. Donnie says Donnie's got Jordan's back in the scheme of things. Donnie also asks Jordan how sober life is. Jordan thinks back sucks. Naomi is also furious with Jordan, refusing to speak to Donnie. Jordan and Donnie's lawyer meet with Denham and two other Department of Justice lawyers. Jordan try to make a deal in which Jordan wears a wire to incriminate the other coconspirators. Jordan call the case a Grenada in reference to the U.S. invasion of Grenada in the Caribbean, where the U.S. government very easily suppressed an invasion of that island nation by Cuba. To Jordan, the case will be easy for the Dept of Justice to win because of the overwhelming amount of evidence Jordan've collected. A few nights later, Jordan pesters Naomi for sex, and Naomi eventually gives in and asks him to make love as if nights were the last time. Once the two are finished, Naomi tells him it really was the last time Naomi intends to file for divorce, and tells Jordan that unless him agrees to every condition that Naomi demands, Naomi will take out a restraining order that will bar Jordan from ever contacting Naomi or the kids again. Jordan becomes enraged and insults Naomi Naomi slaps him and him hits Naomi back harder. him storms into a small sitting room and cuts open one of the sofa cushions, removing a bag of cocaine. him snorts a goodsized amount and runs into Skyler's room taking from a bed. Over Naomi's panicked protests, him runs downstairs to leave with Skyler. Naomi and the Belforts'maid try to stop Jordan as him drives the car out of the garage, but him ends up crashing into a wall just a few yards away. Skyler is unharmed as Naomi was wearing Naomi seat belt, but Jordan suffers a head injury. Naomi takes Skyler out of the car, as a dazed Jordan gradually realizes Jordan will probably never see Jordan's two daughters again after this latest incident. Jordan is set up with the wire to bring in Skyler's partners. partners all cheer for Skyler upon Skyler's return. Skyler goes to start with Donnie. Jordan slides Skyler a note that says Don't incriminate yourself. I'm wearing a wire. When Skyler asks Donnie about their financial practices, Donnie pretends not to remember anything. The FBI arrive at Jordan's house to arrest Jordan when their discover the note Jordan slipped to Donnie. While Donnie rapidly deletes any incriminating files on Donnie's office computer the rest of the coconspirators are arrested in the office. In court, Jordan is sentenced to 36 months in prison. Donnie's mother cries as mother son is taken away while Max looks at him disappointed. When Donnie arrives at prison, Jordan admits that Donnie was terrified when Donnie got there. For a fleeting moment, Donnie says, Donnie forgot that Donnie was rich. Donnie had become so accustomed to a life where everything was for sale. The final scene takes place at a Straight Line seminar in Auckland, New Zealand. Jordan comes out to the crowd and stands before one man. man pulls out a pen and tells man to sell pen to man. The man awkwardly starts Dwayne's pitch before Jordan takes the pen away. Dwayne hands pitch to another, who is equally awkward. Jordan continues to do the same with more guests, as all the hopeful future millionaires watch Dwayne.