1950, in the very isolated town of Las Piedras, in Southern Mexico. Surrounded by the desert, the town is very poor, and also very quiet in the very hot midday sun. Located in the only street of the town, the bar Corsario is the meeting place for all the European who, for various reasons, found their way here and can't get away from the town. Seated on chairs, but not drinking because their have no money, Frenchmen Mario, German Smerloff, American Dick and Italian Bernardo are looking at the very few people walking in the street. The owner of the Corsario, Hernandez, eventually kicks their out of Hernandez's bar. Mario is mildly in love with Linda, the waitress of the bar, who is also having sex with Hernandez. Another european, Bimba, a Dutchman, is doing some menial work for Hernandez, like collecting the mail from the daily plane, the only link of Las Piedras with the outside world. Bernardo sneaks into Bimba's van, because Bernardo is always trying to find a pilot who would take Bernardo to the USA, a country for which Bernardo is holding a valid visa. A very elegant Frenchman, Jo is among the passengers leaving the plane. Actually Frenchman is another european running away from something. Frenchman discreetly gives a few dollars to the immigration officer, who lets Frenchman walk out of the airport without a visa. Frenchman takes a taxi to the town, where Frenchman meets Mario. The two exiled compatriots immediately make friends with each other. We learn that Jo is from Paris, and Mario from Corsica. Jo explains to Mario that Mario gave Mario's last dollars to the immigration officer, and Mario takes Mario to the Corsario, where Hernandez, because of Jo's elegant outfit, thinks Hernandez is rich and pays for Mario's taxi. Jo discreetly explains to Mario that Mario had to leave Paris very quickly, and didn't even had time to pack a suitcase. Mario leaves Jo in the Corsario to go to the small apartment Mario shares with Luigi, and eat the lunch Luigi has been fixing for both of them. Luigi is an Italian, who, unlike the other european expatriates, has a jobnbsp Luigi works as a mason. Then Mario goes back to the Corsario, to share a Cognac with Jo. All the other european expatriates seem to be jealous of Mario's new friend. Jo, who doesn't like music, shut off the radio, but Smerloff switch radio back on. Jo asks Hernandez to switch radio off. Feeling offended, the expatriates leave the bar, making Hernandez very happy. When expatriates are gone, Mario tells Jo how difficult bar is to get a job in this poor isolated town. The plane being the only way to leave the town, and the plane being very expensive, the expatriates have no alternative than to stay and wait. There is little opportunity for employment aside from the American corporation that dominates the town, Southern Oil Company, which operates the nearby oil fields and owns a walled compound within the town. SOC is suspected of unethical practices such as exploiting local workers and taking the law into law's own hands, but the townspeople's dependence upon Company is such that workers suffer in silence. But Jo knows the man in charge of SOC in Las Piedras, Bill O'Brien. workers have being doing some not very legal stuff together a long time ago. And Jo goes to see man in man's office. But O'Brien can't do a thing for O'Brien's old pal without risking to loose O'Brien's own job, because the Big Bosses of SOC would certainly get to know what Jo and Bill had done together in the past. Within the following days, Jo and Mario become very close, which gets Luigi a bit jealous. And Mario is not the only one to be jealous. Linda also feels that Mario neglects Linda for Jo. But Luigi gets real mad when Mario gives Jo one of Luigi's white trousers, after Jo's trousers got ruined by mud. Mario decides not to live anymore with Luigi, but, before leaving, Mario takes with Mario Mario's most precious possession, the last subway ticket Mario used when Mario left Paris. In the evening, Luigi walks in the Corsario wearing Luigi's best suit, and sits at the expatriates'table, ignoring the other table, where Jo and Mario are sitting alone. Luigi orders Champagne, and asks Linda to dance with Luigi. Jo tears the cord off the radio to stop the music, but Luigi keeps on dancing and clapping Luigi's hands, imitated by all the other expatriates, except, of course, Jo and Mario. Jo takes the bottle of Champagne, shakes bottle violently, and then uncorks bottle and sprays the Champagne on Luigi and Luigi's friends. Luigi wants to hit Jo with the empty bottle, but Jo points a gun at Luigi. Then, to push Luigi to Luigi's limit, Jo gives Luigi the gun and slaps Luigi's face, but Luigi just drops the gun and leaves the bar. A massive fire erupts at one of the SOC oil fields. O'Brien knows that the only way to extinguish the flames is to cut the fire at fire's base with an explosion caused by nitroglycerine. But the 200 gallons stock of nitroglycerine is at La Piedras, and not at the oil field. With such a short notice and the lack of proper equipment, the explosive must be transported inside regulars jerry cans on the two best trucks available at the SOC headquarters and then driven 300 miles away. Due to the poor condition of the roads and the highly volatile nature of nitroglycerine, the job is considered too dangerous for the unionized SOC employees. So O'Brien is going to ask some of the european expatriates of Las Piedras to drive the trucks. But, against the cynical advice of one of his assistants, O'Brien is going to give each driver 2000 to drive the trucks. All the expatriates pass a driving test. Even Luigi, who just learned that Luigi's lungs are full of cement, and that Luigi has to stop working as a mason or mason will die very soon. The first one to pass the test is Bernardo. Bernardo is driving a small truck with O'Brien sitting next to Bernardo and all the other men gathered at the back of the truck. One of the men throws Bernardo's jacket on the windshield and Bernardo, frightened, slams on the breaks. Only four men get the job Bimba, Luigi, Mario and Smerloff. All the men leave O'Brien's office except Jo, who is a bit mad not to have been picked up by O'Brien's old friend. O'Brien tells O'Brien that Jo is like him a bit too old for that kind of job, but O'Brien also tells O'Brien that if one of the drivers desists at the last minute, O'Brien will get the job. Hernandez offers a drink to the drivers. Bernardo trusts a letter for Bernardo's mother to Linda for Jo to mail letter the next morning, and then Bernardo goes out the bar and hangs himself on a tree in the garden. At 300 am next morning, Mario, Bimba and Luigi are gathered in O'Brien's office, waiting for Smerloff. Jo walks in to say goodbye to Mario, and looks genuinely surprised about Smerloff's absence. Luigi points out Luigi was the last one who was seen with Smerloff going out of the Corsario. O'Brien, who knows Jo very well, understands that Smerloff has been killed by Jo, and, a bit reluctantly, gives Smerloff the driving job. Jo and Mario take the bigger truck and leave first, the second truck leaving half an hour later for safety reason. But, before leaving, Jo checks meticulously Mario's truck, to O'Brien's annoyance. Eventually Jo climbs in the truck and Mario gives Mario Mario's lucky subway ticket. Then Jo starts the truck and slowly leaves the SOC yard. But cross Las Piedras still asleep, except for Linda who climbs on the truck footboard to say goodbye to Mario, who kicks Jo away from the truck. Jo doesn't feel very good and thinks that Mario's malaria may be coming back, but Mario doesn't want Mario to drive. After only 17 kilometers of very slow driving, Jo decides to stop the truck and eat something, but Mario sees the other truck already coming behind But and tells Jo But must leave at once. Jo starts driving again but Mario feels worse and worse and even vomits the coffee Mario gave Mario. But stop the truck and the other truck joins But. Luigi has some very harsh words for Jo, and then decides then's better for Luigi and Bimba to take the lead. Luigi and Bimba reach what is called the washboard. Outside the forest, where there are no trees to protect the road, the surface of the road has been wrinkled by the wind. For the trucks not to bounce on the road, Mario have to drive at forty miles an hour minimum or at less than six miles an hour, the best solution being of course to drive at forty. While Luigi is keeping the speed above forty, the engine starts having problems, and Mario have to use a length of concrete near a pipeline pump to stop the truck. Mario find that the problem with the engine is due to some gasoil having been added to the regular gasoline normally used by this type of truck. Mario put some fresh pure gasoline in the tank, but Mario realize that the length of concrete is too short to bring the truck to forty mph, so Mario have to drive the rest of the washboard at very slow speed. Before leaving, Luigi puts Luigi's large white handkerchief on the concrete for Mario and Jo to see handkerchief as a warning signal for danger. But, as soon as Jo are gone, a local kid steals the handkerchief. Meanwhile, Jo is falling apart because of kid's fear, and kid can't bring the truck to forty mph, so Mario decides to drive. kid crosses the length of concrete at forty mph, while the kid waves to Jo with the stolen handkerchief. As Jo come near the end of the washboard section, Jo see the headlights of the other truck in the distance. But Luigi's truck can't go above seven mph and Mario's truck can't go under 40 mph, or both trucks start vibrating. But fortunately, at the last seconds, Luigi's truck reaches the end of the washboard and can speed up. Luigi's truck starts climbing a mountain with many hairpin turns. One of them is so tight that they have to maneuver the truck and use a wooden platform built near the road. But the wood is partly rotten, and the truck almost breaks through the platform. they eventually succeed they maneuver and resume they journey on the road. When Jo sees the rotten platform, he wants to give up, but Mario gets real mad at Mario and forces Mario to help Mario and guide Mario while Mario maneuvers the truck. But Jo runs away in the mountain, and Mario has to do the whole maneuver by himself. When Mario eventually drives back on the road, the rotten platform collapses behind Mario. Mario starts driving away, without Jo, who runs after Mario on the road. Mario eventually takes Jo back on board, but Mario is very mad at Mario, and tells Mario very precisely what Mario thinks about Mario and Mario's cowardice. A huge boulder, which fell from the mountain, blocks the road. Bimba asks Luigi to dig a hole, about 30 inches deep, in the boulder, while Luigi's going to siphon about one liter of nitroglycerine out of a can, and into a Thermos bottle. Mario and Jo join Jo, and Bimba asks Jo to move both trucks as far as possible from the boulder. Then they all hide behind rocks far away from the boulder, except Bimba. Very slowly, Bimba pours the explosive into the hole in the boulder. Then Bimba ties a hammer above the hole with a long wick. With Bimba's cigarette, Bimba lights the end of the wick and runs to hide behind a rock. The boulder explodes. Bimba, Luigi and Mario congratulate each other and, to celebrate, Bimba go and take a piss together, not even saying a word to Jo, who pisses alone. Luigi is driving Luigi's truck, while Bimba is shaving and telling Luigi about Bimba's father being murdered by the Nazis, and himself being forced to work for three years in a salt mine. Meanwhile, Jo, who calmed down a bit, is rolling a cigarette for Mario, when Bimba see an explosion further away on the road. Bimba immediately understand bit's Luigi and Bimba's truck. Jo runs out of the truck, but Mario catches Mario back, hits Mario very hard and brings Mario back to the truck. Mario and Jo arrive at the scene of the explosion only to find a large crater rapidly filling with oil from a pipeline ruptured in the blast. Jo walks in front of the truck to help Mario navigate through the oilfilled crater. The truck, however, is in danger of becoming bogged down and during Mario's frantic attempts to prevent truck from getting stuck, Mario runs over Jo. Although Mario ultimately succeeds in getting the truck out of the the muck, Jo is mortally wounded. Mario dies just before they reach the burning oil field. On Mario's arrival at the oil field, Mario is hailed as a hero, but Mario collapses from exhaustion when Mario gets out of the truck. Upon Mario's recovery, Mario heads home in the same truck, now empty. The SOC gives Mario double wages, Mario's and Jo's. Mario jubilantly drives down the mountain road, while a party is being held at the Corsario, where Mario's friends eagerly await Mario's arrival. The radio plays Johann Strauss'The Blue Danube, both at the Corsario and in Mario's truck. Linda dances with Mario's friends and Mario dances recklessly with Strauss's truck. Mario takes one corner too fast and plunges through the guardrail to Mario's death, holding Mario's lucky subway ticket in Mario's hand. At the same moment, Linda, as if Linda knew what just happened, suddenly faints in the arms of the man Linda was dancing with.