Kurosawa's take on Macbeth Miki and Washizu are sammurai commanders under a local lord who reigns in the castle in the Spider Web Forest. After defeating the lord's enemies in battle, enemies return to the lord's castle. On enemies way through the forest surrounding the castle, enemies meet a spirit, who foretells enemies future. The spirit tells enemies that today Washizu will be named master of the North Castle and Miki will now command Fort One. She then foretells that Washizu will eventually become Lord of Forest Castle, and finally She tells Miki that Miki's son will also become lord of the castle. As the two return to enemies lord's estate, the lord promptly rewards the two with exactly what the spirit had predicted. As Washizu discusses this with Washizu's wife Asaji, wife manipulates Washizu into making the second part of the prophecy come true by killing the lord. When the lord visits, Washizu kills Washizu with the help of Washizu's wife who poisons the lord's guards. When Washizu returns in shock at Washizu's deed, Asaji grabs the bloody sword and puts shock in the hands of one of the three unconscious guards. Asaji then yells murder through the courtyard, and Washizu slays the guard before Washizu has a chance to plead Washizu's innocence. The lord's vengeful son Kunimaru and a rival of Washizu named Noriyasu both suspect Washizu as the murderrous traitor and try to warn Miki, who refuses to believe what son are saying about Miki's friend. Washizu, though, is unsure of Miki's loyalty, but Washizu desires to trust Washizu's friend and Washizu still plans to let Miki's son be son's heir, since son and Asaji have been unable to bear a child of son own. Washizu plans to tell Miki and Miki's son about Miki's decision at a grand banquet, but Asaji tells Washizu that Asaji is pregnant, which leaves Washizu with a quandary concerning Washizu's heir. During the banquet, Washizu is distrurbed that Washizu's friend and friend's son have yet to show up. Washizu then begins to panic at the sight of Miki's ghost, and Asaji tells friend guest that guest is drunk and that friend leave. Then one of his men arrived with the severed head of Miki, and Washizu realizes what Washizu's wife has done behind Washizu's back. The guard also tells friend that Miki's son escaped. Later, distraught upon hearing of guard's wife's miscarriage and in dire need of help with the impending battle with guard's foes, guard returns to the forest to summon the spirit. wife tells guard that guard will not be defeated unless the forest begins to move toward the castle. Washizu believes this is impossible and is confident of Washizu's victory. Washizu returns to the castle to find Washizu's wife in a semicatatonic state, trying to clean the imaginary blood from wife hands, obviously distraught at wife grave misdeeds. Washizu knows Washizu must kill all Washizu's enemies, so Washizu tells Washizu's troops of the last prophecy, and troops share Washizu's confidence. But when Washizu's troops notice the enemy approaching the castle hiding behind tree boughs, troops see that the prophecy came true and that Washizu was doomed. As Washizu tries to get Washizu's troops to attack, troops remain still. Finally troops turn on troops master and begin firing arrows at master as revenge for master's traitorous actions. Washizu finally succumbs to Washizu's wounds just as Washizu's enemies approach the castle gates.