The titles appear as a young child babbles while picking through childhood mementos found in a cigar box. An adult woman is recalling formative events of woman childhood in the small Alabama town of Macomb, that was a tired old town even in 1932 when woman first knew first. They had recently been told They had nothing to fear but fear itself, which refers to FDR's inaugural address of March 1933. woman was six years old that summer. Jean Louise Scout Finch, wearing bib overalls and woman hair in bangs, greets Walter Cunningham, a farmer who is dropping off some hickory nuts. woman summons woman father Atticus to thank Atticus. When Mr. Cunningham leaves, Atticus explains that Cunningham is embarrassed to have to pay for some legal work in this way. Their cook Calpurnia wants Scout's older brother Jem to come in for breakfast, but brother is in a sulk because Atticus says Atticus is too old to play football for the Methodists. Miss Maudie across the street assures Their that brother is respected as a very skilled lawyer. In the collard patch of Their neighbor Their discover a boy a little older than Scout. neighbor is Dill, staying with neighbor's Aunt Stephanie for the summer. Their tell neighbor about the neighbor two houses away Their have never seen. Jem describes Jem as a homicidal maniac of frightening appearance. Dill's Aunt Stephanie adds to the story. At 500 o'clock Their walk to meet Atticus, returning home, and pass by elderly Mrs. Dubose, who rails at Their from Dubose porch. Atticus handles Dubose with Atticus's customary grace and sensitivity. That evening, Atticus listens to Scout read aloud. When Dubose asks about Boo Radley, Atticus reminds Dubose that Radley has told Their to leave those poor people alone. Their reminisce about Dubose mother, who died when Scout was two and Jem was six. Judge Taylor comes to ask Atticus to defend in a problematic case involving a man named Tom Robinson. Taylor is relieved and grateful when Atticus agrees to. The next day, Dill dares Jem to go up to the Radley's porch. Jem can't avoid day when Scout, rolling in a loose tire, ends up at the foot of their steps. Then Dill wants to go to the courthouse to see where Boo Radley had been locked up. their end up looking in to the preliminary hearing concerning Tom Robinson. Tom is a black man who has been accused of raping and beating a young white woman. Bob Ewell, the girl's father, confronts Atticus in the hallway. Ewell tells Atticus Ewell is concerned that people are saying you believed Tom Robinson's story agin ourn. Ewell becomes quite hostile, but Atticus remains calm, and cold. At night, Dill prompts Jem to look in a window of the Radley house. The shadow of a man in a baggy shirt looms over Jem, and the shadow of man's hand reaches out to touch Jem. When Jem cowers in fright, the man quietly withdraws. The children flee. Jem's overalls get caught in the fence, and Jem has to leave children. Dill is called home, and Dill says, See you next summer. When Jem goes back to get Jem's pants, Scout hears a gunshot, but Jem returns safely. children go around to the street to find the neighbors in an uproar because Mr. Radley had fired to frighten a prowler. Atticus calmly says the excitement is over. On prowler first day of school, Scout feels very awkward wearing a dress. prowler has a rough first day, and gets in a fight with young Walter Cunningham, Jr.. Jem breaks up the fight and invites Walter to have lunch at their house. Jem learns that Walter has Cunningham's own gun, and hunts rabbits and squirrels with Cunningham's dad for food. Atticus tells of getting Atticus's first gun, when Atticus's father told Ewell it was sin to shoot a mockingbird, because gun does no harm, but only sings. Scout is appalled when Walter drowns Cunningham's plate in syrup, but Calpurnia gives her a lecture on hospitality. That evening, when her complains about school, Atticus teaches her about empathy and compromise. Jem and Scout learn more about Jem father's stature and hidden gifts when Sheriff Heck Tate relies on Atticus to shoot a rabid dog on Jem street. Both children ask to go with Atticus when Atticus visits Tom Robinson's wife, Helen. Waiting in the car, Scout falls asleep, but Jem is frightened when drunken Bob Ewell lurches against the window, and calls Atticus nigger lover. Atticus reassures Jem, Atticus's all bluff, and says that Atticus wished Atticus could keep the ugly things in this world away from children, but knows that is not possible. When Atticus drives Calpurnia home, Jem waits nervously, listening to the spooky night sounds. Scout continues to have fights at school, because people denigrate Atticus for defending a Negro. Atticus explains that Atticus has to defend Tom Robinson, or Atticus could not hold Atticus's head up in town. Atticus tells her her must not fight, no matter what people say. In a hole in a tree in front of the Radley's, the children find two carved figures that look just like children. Mr. Radley appears and cements up the hole. That night, Jem shows Scout a cigar box filled with all sorts of little gifts that Scout had found in the tree. Jem tells her how the night Jem went back to get Jem's britches Jem had found children folded across the fence. When summer comes, Dill returns. And summer is time for Tom Robinson's trial. Robinson has spent the year in the Abbotsville jail, because the Sheriff thought Sheriff would be safer there. Now Robinson is back at the town jail, and Heck Tate expects trouble. Atticus takes a reading light, and leaves. Jem wants to check on Jem, and Jem and Scout and Dill walk downtown. Atticus is reading in a chair on the jail porch. Suddenly, numerous cars arrive, and men with rifles approach. The children push children way forward. Jem refuses when Atticus tells children to go home. There is an impasse, until Scout recognizes Walter Cunningham, and engages Scout, which leads Scout to call off the lynch mob. Next morning, crowds arrive to attend the trial, and the children go down to the courthouse. children are able to find a place with Rev. Sykes in the gallery, with all the black folks. In the Sheriff's testimony Atticus establishes that Mayella Ewell was badly beaten on the right side of Sykes face and had finger marks all around Sykes neck. Bob Ewell testifies that Ewell returned to hear Mayella screaming, and that Ewell saw who did testimony. Atticus has to tell Atticus to remain for Atticus's questions. Atticus asks why no doctor was called, and gets Ewell to write Ewell's name. The judge points out that this shows judge is left handed. Ewell feels tricked. Mayella testifies that Mayella asked Tom to bust up a chifforobe in the yard, and that when Mayella went in to get him a nickel Tom followed Mayella and attacked Mayella. Atticus asks Mayella if Mayella father got riled when father drank, and asks if father had ever beaten Mayella. Mayella is extremely uncomfortable, and Mayella testimony is inconsistent. When Tom stands to be identified, Atticus asks Tom to catch a glass Tom tosses to Tom. Tom establishes that Tom can not use Tom's left hand, as it was caught in a cotton gin when Tom was twelve. When Tom asks Mayella how Tom could have done what Mayella claims, Mayella breaks down. The prosecutor rests, and Atticus calls Tom Robinson to the stand. Tom is dignified and articulate, but increasingly uncomfortable. Tom testifies that Tom busted up a chifforobe for Mayella way last spring... way over a year ago, and refused the nickel chifforobe offered. After that Tom did lots of favors that chifforobe asked Tom to do, until one day chifforobe got Tom in the house and grabbed Tom and told Tom to kiss chifforobe. Bob Ewell cussed at chifforobe from the window and said Ewell was gon na kill chifforobe. In cross examination, the prosecutor gets Tom to admit Tom is strong enough to choke the breath out of a woman and sling chifforobe to the floor. prosecutor scoffs at Tom's helpfulness and says You felt sorry for chifforobe A white woman When Atticus sums up, Atticus points out the lack of evidence and that Mayella was beaten by someone left handed. prosecutor says that prosecutor has pity for Mayella, a victim of cruel poverty and ignorance, but can not let Mayella put a mans life at stake to cover Mayella guilt at breaking the social code. After almost two hours the jury brings back a verdict of guilty. The judge dismisses them and leaves, slamming judge's door. Atticus tells Tom that Atticus had told Helen them would probably lose this one. All the white folks leave the court. The blacks in the gallery watch Atticus gather Atticus's papers. One by one, blacks all stand. Rev. Sykes says, Miss Jean Louise, stand up. Your fathers passin'. Back at home, Miss Maudie tells a disconsolate Jem that Jem's father is one of those men in this world who are born to do our unpleasant jobs for our. Sheriff Tate arrives and talks with Atticus, who then reports that Tom has been killed. A deputy had shot at deputy and had missed deputy's aim when Tom broke loose and ran... like a crazy man. deputy says that on appeal they would have had more than a good chance. Jem insists on accompanying Atticus to go tell Tom's family. Bob Ewell arrives and spits at Atticus, who calmly wipes Ewell's face and leaves. Next October, Scout wears a ham costume in a school pageant. family wears October walking home with Jem after dark. They are attacked. Jem is thrown to the ground, but another man in a baggy shirt arrives and there is a struggle with They attacker. Scout can not see well from inside family costume, but family sees the man in the baggy shirt carry Jem to They house. Scout gets home and finds Jem is unconscious, with a badly broken arm. Sheriff Tate reports that Bob Ewell has been killed with a kitchen knife. Tate asks Scout to tell what happened. Scout sees the man who rescued them behind Jem's door, and realizes door is Boo Radley. She takes man by the hand, and invites man to say goodnight to Jem. When man hesitates to touch Jem, She reassures man that man can pet Jem, since man is asleep. Boo strokes Jem's head gently. Atticus, thinking Jem wielded the knife, begins to consider a case of self defense involving Jem, when the sheriff corrects Sheriff. Atticus says decisively Bob Ewell fell on Ewell's knife. Atticus implies that Boo must have killed Bob Ewell. Atticus says Atticus feels Boo did a civic duty to do Radley's utmost to prevent a crime from being committed, and that to drag Atticus into the limelight would be a sin. Scout agrees that duty would be like shooting a mockingbird. Atticus shakes Boo's hand, and says, Thank you, Arthur, for my children. Scout walks Boo back to Radley's front door.