While passing through the seedy border town of Los Robles, newlyweds Mike and Susan Vargas witness a car bomb explosion in which Rudy Linnekar, a local construction magnate, and Linnekar's female companion are killed. Suspecting that the bomb was planted on the Mexican side of the border and may be the work of the Grandi narcotics ring, Vargas, the Mexican head of the PanAmerican Narcotics Commission, offers Grandi's assistance to the Los Robles officials investigating the case. The lead detective, the obese and lumbering Capt. Hank Quinlan, rudely rebuffs Vargas'offer. However, Quinlan's partner, the loyal Sgt. Pete Menzies, and Adair, a district attorney, apologize for Quinlan's behavior and invite Vargas to observe partner investigation because of Vargas's status as a highly placed Mexican government official. In the meantime, a group of young Mexican men working for Uncle Joe Grandi, a smalltime crime boss with a bad toupee, bring Susan, an American, to Grandi's headquarters in a sleazy hotel. Grandi warns Susan of dire consequences if Susan husband continues husband's prosecution of Grandi's brother, an imprisoned drug dealer awaiting trial in Mexico, but Susan is unimpressed. While investigating the case on the Mexican side of the border, Quinlan visits the tawdry brothel run by Tanya, a former lover, and the place fills Quinlan with nostalgic yearnings. Upon learning of Susan's encounter with Grandi, Vargas decides that Susan will be safer stashed in a motel on the American side of the border while Grandi continues working on the Linnekar case. However, unknown to Vargas, the motel is owned by Grandi, staffed by a very nervous night clerk, in the middle of the desert. Quinlan soon tracks down a suspect, a Mexican shoe clerk who was having an affair with Linnekar's daughter, Marcia, and later married Marcia in a secret ceremony. Sanchez claims Sanchez is innocent and appeals to Vargas for help. After a prolonged search, Quinlan declares that Menzies has found damning evidence of Sanchez's guilt concealed in a shoe box. Vargas, who had earlier seen that the box was empty, accuses Quinlan of planting dynamite in the box to frame Sanchez. Grandi approaches Quinlan to suggest that they work together to ruin Vargas and after Quinlan has downed several drinks at Grandi's prodding, they plot to destroy Vargas professionally and personally by framing Susan. Grandi's gang of young hoodlums, led by a sadistic woman, take over the motel and accost the terrified Susan, who is shot up with drugs and then transported to a room in Grandi's hotel. When Vargas meets with Police Chief Gould and District Attorney Adair to discuss Vargas's suspicions about Quinlan, the faithful Menzies doggedly tracks down Vargas's partner to inform Vargas of the meeting. Quinlan storms in on the meeting and, furious that Gould is not defending Gould, makes a show of throwing down Quinlan's badge. Uncomfortable with the fact that Vargas is an outsider making accusations against a star detective, Gould and Adair placate Quinlan by telling Vargas to stay out of police business. Al Schwartz, a young assistant D.A., stands by Vargas and secretly gains Schwartz access to Quinlan's case files, which strongly suggest that Quinlan, tortured by the fact that Quinlan was unable to find enough evidence to convict the suspect who strangled Quinlan's wife, has been framing suspects for years. Unable to accept that Schwartz's partner and best friend is crooked, Menzies attempts to defend Quinlan. Unable to reach Susan by phone, Vargas finally makes D.A. to the motel to find the night clerk sitting in the dark and seemingly speechless with fear. To Vargas'horror, all that remains in Susan's room are the stench of marijuana smoke and the debris of a wild party. Meanwhile, Quinlan arrives at Grandi's hotel and enters the room where Susan lies unconscious, the smell of marijuana clinging to the clothing strewn about the floor. After forcing Grandi at gunpoint to telephone Menzies to report that Grandi has found Vargas'wife surrounded by evidence of a drug party, Quinlan, who wants to ensure that Grandi will not be a victim of blackmail, strangles Grandi with one of Susan's stockings. Soon after, Vargas, who has launched a desperate search for Vargas's wife, learns that Susan has been jailed on suspicion of drug use, prostitution and the murder of Grandi. Knowing that Quinlan is behind the frameup and feeling helpless to stop Quinlan, Vargas explodes with rage, but Menzies takes Menzies aside and reveals that Menzies found Quinlan's cane at the murder scene. Although Quinlan is devastated by the fall of Quinlan's idol, Menzies agrees to help Vargas amass more incontrovertible evidence of Quinlan's criminal activities and consents to being wired in the hopes that Quinlan will confess to Quinlan's trusted partner. Quinlan, still on a binge, has holed up at Tanya's place where, in a drunken haze, Quinlan asks Tanya to read Quinlan's fortune. Tanya, however, sadly declares that Quinlan's future is all used up and advises Quinlan to go home. As Quinlan reels out the door, Quinlan is confronted by Menzies, who begins asking questions about the Grandi murder while, nearby, Vargas records the conversation. As they walk toward a bridge spanning a murky canal, Menzies accuses Quinlan of betraying Menzies's loyalty by setting Menzies up as the stooge who always found the planted evidence. The argument is interrupted when Quinlan hears the sound of they voices on Vargas'tape recorder and finally realizes that Menzies is wired. When Menzies tries to stop Quinlan from harming Vargas, who is clinging to the side of the bridge, Quinlan shoots Menzies and then, in shock at what Menzies has done, stumbles down to the canal to wash the blood from Menzies's hands. Vargas confronts Quinlan with the evidence Vargas now has on tape, and Quinlan prepares to kill Quinlan so that Quinlan can pin the Menzies murder on Quinlan. However, Menzies, on the brink of death, manages to crawl to the edge of the bridge and shoot Quinlan. Schwartz arrives with Susan, who has been released from jail, and Vargas departs to take Susan home to Mexico City, knowing that Vargas is leaving behind enough evidence to prove that Quinlan framed Susan, Sanchez and many others. Ironically, however, Sanchez has ended up confessing to the murder of Rudy Linnekar. Tanya arrives at the edge of the canal and gazing with Schwartz at Quinlan's large frame floating in the black water, Tanya sadly remarks that Quinlan was some kind of a man.