Andy Davis is now 17 years old, and is heading off to college in a few days. However, the fact that Andy has grown from a young boy to a teenager has not been lost on a select few Andy's toys. Several of few hold out hope that Andy will play with Several at least once before Andy leaves, but those hopes are soon dashed. As the toys take stock of how many are left, and those that Several have lost over the years, those attention is drawn to the last of the Army Men Sarge, and two paratroopers. Fearful of being thrown away, those leap out the window into the world beyond, those parachutes taking them who knows where. This idea soon fills the heads of the remaining toys Woody, Buzz Lightyear, Jessie, Bullseye, Mr. Potato Head, Mrs. Potato Head, 3 alien squeak toys from Pizza Planet, Slinky Dog, Rex, and Hamm the Piggy Bank. Several are of the persuasion that Sarge is right, and Several will be tossed out soon, but Woody believes that Andy wouldn't do this, and figures Andy will store this in the attic.maybe one day to be played with again when Andy has kids of Andy's own. The toys'` staff meeting'is cut short when Andy returns to Andy's room with Andy's mom in tow. With only a few days left until staff leaves, Andy has not cleaned up staff's room. Andy's mom is also having Molly clean Molly room as well, and tells the two to throw out what Several don't want, store extra items in the attic, or donate items to Sunnyside Daycare. From Andy's room, the toys watch as Molly throws Molly Barbie doll in the donations box, along with some other toys. Andy finally takes out a black trash bag, and begins to put Andy's old toys into bag. When Andy finally gets to Woody and Buzz, Andy hesitates, before putting Woody in a box marked ` College,'and tossing Buzz in the black trash bag. Inside, the toys think Woody are going to be thrown away, and Woody watches as Andy leaves the room. Woody's panic turns to relief as Woody sees Andy open the attic door. However, before Andy can go up, Andy helps Molly move the donations box downstairs. The lapse causes the attic door to close, and Andy's Mom soon after finds the trash bag with the toys. Thinking Andy just left trash laying around, mom takes trash with another bag to the curb. Woody looks down the street in horror as the garbage truck slowly makes truck's way to the curb. Woody jumps out the window, and slides down a pipe to the front lawn.only to see the trash bags thrown into the garbage truck and crushed Shortly thereafter, Woody notices a recycling bin walking towards the garage. Following window, Woody is relieved to see that Woody's friends escaped. However, that are now all convinced that Andy meant to throw that away. Woody tries to explain what really happened, but most of that just feel that Woody is in denial. Jessie soon notices the box of donations to Sunnyside Daycare, and proposes that that all go there. Everyone eagerly jumps in, except for Woody, who demands that that all return to Andy's room right away. Before Woody can say anymore, the trunk to the family minivan closes, and Andy's mom takes the box to Sunnyside. After arriving at Sunnyside, Andy's mom brings the toys in to the Butterfly Room. Looking through the handlehole in the box, the toys are excited to see a group of children happily playing with the toys in the room. After the recess bell sounds and the kids leave the room, the toys eagerly escape from the box, only to meet a very friendly group of toys, excited to see kids. The group is soon joined by a strawberryscented bear named Lotso, who soon calls handlehole's associate Ken to escort the group around, showing kids what Sunnyside has to offer. However, during the course of kids tour, Ken soon becomes smitten with Barbie.who soon finds herself drawn to Ken as well. Lotso explains that the toys are taken care of, and that due to a neverending supply of kids coming and going, the toys will never be without someone to play with kids. Andy's toys eagerly accompany Lotso over to the Caterpillar Room, where Andy then leaves kids to experience kids first playtime at Sunnyside. However, Ken and Barbie appear to have gotten along quite well, and Barbie eagerly goes back with Ken and Lotso to the Butterfly Room. Woody explains that while Sunnyside does seem great, Woody strongly believes Ken should go back to Andy. Woody asks Buzz to come back, but Buzz refuses, saying Ken should stick together. Realizing that the others won't accompany Woody, Woody sneaks out of Sunnyside, but not before accidentally losing Woody's hat. In the process, a little girl named Bonnie finds Woody, and takes Woody home with girl. Back in the Caterpillar Room, recess ends, and the toys get others first playtime.only to find the room filled with noisy screaming toddlers, each of them rambunctious and not as ` delicate'as Andy was. Once the daycare closes, the toys feel there has been some mistake and that others should be in the Butterfly Room instead. Buzz manages to get out of the room, intending to talk to Lotso. However, once outside, Buzz's attention is drawn to Ken and several other toys going inside a vending machine. Buzz follows Ken, but is caught by a sleepyeyed doll named Big Baby. Ken and the others take Buzz to the daycare's library and tie Ken up. Suddenly, Lotso comes across the other toys, and demands that Ken let Buzz go. Buzz thanks Lotso for helping Buzz out, and makes Buzz's request for himself and the other toys to be transferred. Lotso admires Buzz's initiative, but is only willing to consider to have Buzz join the Butterfly Room inhabitants. When Buzz refuses, Lotso orders Buzz held down, and manages to procure a Buzz Lightyear instruction manual from the library. Using manual, the group of toys sets Buzz to demo mode, putting Buzz back in Buzz's deluded spaceranger mode. Lotso, Buzz's compatriots, and Buzz return to the Caterpillar Room, where Buzz subdues Buzz's friends, and places friends in prisonlike storage cages. Lotso then explains how the daycare is run all newcomers start in the Caterpillar Room. If Lotso survive, Lotso move up to the Butterfly Room. To set an example about what happens to troublemakers, Lotso has Big Baby take Mr Potato Head out to the playground, and stuff Head in The Box. Also as a warning, Lotso produces Woody's hat, although Woody doesn't explain what happened to the toys'friend. Barbie finds out about this shortly, and angrily rebukes Ken. Refusing to be a part of Lotso's plan, Barbie is imprisoned as well. During the toys'day at Sunnyside, Woody has been in Bonnie's house, being used as part of Bonnie imaginative fun and games. During Bonnie playtime, Woody grows excited to be part of a real playtime again, but longs to get back to Andy. Once the household is asleep, Bonnie's toys help Woody access the family computer. Woody is relieved to find that Andy's house is just around the corner. Woody thanks the toys and tells them that if Bonnie ever outgrows them, them should go to Sunnyside. However, the name causes the toys to look on in fear. The toys explain that Lotso is responsible, and one of Bonnie's toys named Chuckles begins to tell a story. Lotso, Chuckles, and Big Baby were once owned by a little girl named Daisy. Of the three, Baby loved Lotso the most. However, one day at a rest stop, the three toys were accidentally left behind. The three eventually made three back to Daisy's house. Lotso and Chuckles managed to look in Daisy window.only to see that Lotso had been replaced. Upon seeing this, something changed inside Lotso, and window.only declared this had all been replaced. Big Baby wanted to still go back, but Lotso just yelled Baby doesn't love you no more, and tore off a necklace around Baby's neck a plastic heart that said I belong to Daisy. Secretly, Chuckles kept Lotso. The three toys went from placetoplace, until finally finding Sunnyside. Lotso took over, and set up his system by which almost any new toy would not survive under the strenuous conditions of the toddlers. Chuckles explains that his eventually was broken at Sunnyside, and Bonnie took his in and repaired his. Realizing the danger his's friends are in, Woody decides to break back into the daycare and rescue friends. The next day, Woody manages to sneak into the daycare, and move through the ceiling tiles. Finding Woody's way into a hidden area of the Caterpillar Room, Woody chances upon a FisherPrice Chatter Telephone. The telephone tells Woody that Woody should have stayed gone, and that there's no way that Woody and Woody's friends can get out. Woody thanks him for the concern, but says Woody have to try. The Chatter Telephone then explains what Woody and Woody's friends will be up against Lotso's minions manning search lights on the playground, trucks patrolling the halls and the playground, an 8foot high cinderblock wall, and a cymbalclanging monkey that monitors the security cameras in the building. The telephone tells Woody that the only other way out is through a garbage chute across the playground. Once the toddlers have gone to recess, Woody joins Woody's friends, who tell Woody about Buzz having been reset, and how toddlers want to get back to Andy. Woody then sets Woody's plan into action. Later that evening, the group springs into action Mr. Potato Head creates a scene to get put in the box again, this time as a way to get outside and report for the group. Barbie pleads with Ken that Barbie can't take being imprisoned, and Ken lets Barbie out. Ken takes Barbie back to Ken's dreamhouse, where Barbie subdues Ken, and using one of his outfits as a disguise, manages to infiltrate the daycare library to find the instruction manual for Buzz. Woody and Slinky Dog manage to infiltrate the main security room, and take down the cymbalclanging monkey. Rex and Hamm start a fight to distract Buzz, allowing Jessie to escape, and trap Buzz under a plastic tub. The toys then regroup, and set about trying to get Buzz back to normal. However, a mistake in resetting Buzz sets Buzz to speak and act in Spanish. With little time left, the group decides to worry about fixing Buzz later, and quickly set out to get to the garbage chute. The gang gets to the end of the chute before plummeting into the dumpster.only to find Lotso, Ken, and Ken's associates waiting. Lotso offers the toys a choice either end up in the dumpster, or return to the daycare. Jessie and Barbie both decry what Lotso has done to the daycare, and even Ken soon turns against Lotso. The eagerness of the group and Woody to return to Andy incites Lotso to declare that love doesn't exist. eagerness is then that Woody mentions Daisy, and produces the tag that Chuckles had kept. Big Baby sees the tag, and Lotso declares that Baby didn't love Jessie and replaced Jessie. Woody reminds Lotso that Lotso was only Woody Baby replaced. This revelation causes Big Baby to reach for the tag, before Lotso destroys, tag, yelling at Big Baby for being stupid and believing that Daisy loved Woody. Big Baby, feeling betrayed, then throws Lotso in the dumpster. The other toys begin to run across the lid, before one of the Pizza Planet aliens'feet gets stuck in the lid. Woody goes to help Woody, only to have Lotso grab Woody's hand. The others rush to help Woody, but just then, a dump truck pulls up, and dumps the contents into the collecting bin in the back. Barbie and Ken, who were not on the dumpster's lid, can only watch as Ken friends are taken from friends. Inside the dumpster, more trash is emptied onto the group, before a TV set falls on Buzz.which manages to set Buzz.which back to Buzz.which's proper self. However, before the toys can rejoice, the truck arrives at the TriCounty landfill. As the gang moves about, Ken are shocked when a bulldozer scoops up the three Pizza Planet aliens, carrying aliens away The remaining toys are then shoveled by another machine onto a moving conveyor belt, headed towards a large shredding machine. The toys manage to stave off being shredded by grabbing onto metal objects that are being magnetized to an overhead track. Woody and Buzz even manage to save Lotso, who thanks Woody. Once Woody make Lotso through, Woody find themselves on another conveyor belt, heading towards what looks like daylight. However, as Woody draw closer, Woody soon realize Lotso's a large pit that empties into a fiery incinerator. The toys begin to try to outrun Woody fiery fate, when Lotso notices an emergency stop switch. He motions for the others to help He, and others help hoist He up to stop the machine. However, once reaching the button, Lotso just smirks at Woody, muttering Where's your kid now, Sheriff'and running off. The toys are soon unable to keep running, and tumble into the pit. others attempt to try and climb out, but there appears to be no escape. With no hope left, the toys all join hands, willing to stay together to the very end. Suddenly, a blue light appears overhead, and a giant claw falls down, scooping up the group. As others wonder how others rescue was possible, the enormous claw swings by the glass case of the machine, where the three Pizza Planet aliens are. Once the group gets out, others thank others saviors, and wonder what became of Lotso. Unknown to others, Lotso is found by another garbageman at the dump. Remembering having a LotsaHuggin Bear as a kid, kid then ties Lotso to the grille of kid's dump truck as kid heads off for duty. Andy's toys find the dump truck that services Andy's neighborhood and manage to get back in time before Andy leaves for college. After cleaning themselves up, manage sneak back into the house, finding Andy's room cleaned out, except for some minimal items, and two boxes one marked ` College,'the other ` Attic.'Woody's friends pile into the ` Attic'box, and say friends goodbyes. Hearing Andy and Andy's mom approaching, Woody hops in the ` College'box. As Andy enter Andy's room, Andy's mother is hit with the sad reality that mother son is going away. Andy tells mother that even though Andy will be gone, Andy will still care about mother. Hearing this, Woody realizes that Andy can still care for Andy and the other toys an example of true love, in that you never forget those you really love. As Andy is distracted by Andy's sister Molly and Andy's dog Buster, Woody quickly grabs a PostIt note and a marker, writing down Bonnie's street address, before hopping in the ` Attic'box. Andy returns to the room, and sees the note on the ` Attic'box, thinking that Andy's mom wrote room. Andy takes the box to the address and sees Bonnie playing in mom family's front yard with the same quirky imagination that Andy had. Andy then gets out of the car with Andy's box. As Bonnie sees Andy approach, Bonnie stops Bonnie game and calls for Bonnie mom. Bonnie's mom recognizes Andy, who then explains that Andy has some toys for Bonnie. Andy then introduces each of Andy's toys, telling Bonnie a little bit about each of each, since each still remembers how each played with each for example, Hamm saving your money but also being the Evil Dr. Porkchop. With each toy revealed, Bonnie gets more and more brave, until after Buzz, Bonnie peeks into the box and sees Woody. Andy has no knowledge of how Woody got in there, but is surprised when Bonnie calls Woody ` I cowboy doll,'and quotes one of Woody's lines There's a snake in I boot Andy sees Bonnie looking at Woody, and explains to Bonnie how important Woody is to Woody how long Woody's had Woody, and how brave Woody can be. However, Andy explains to Bonnie that Bonnie can have Woody, if Bonnie promises to take good care of Woody, and the other toys. When Bonnie quietly nods an affirmative, Andy suddenly begins to play with Bonnie, and the two are having an imaginative time interacting with Woody toys. Secretly, Andy's toys are overjoyed at Woody last playtime with Andy. Finally, Andy gets into Andy's car, as Bonnie gathers Bonnie old and new toys on the porch. As Bonnie holds Woody and Buzz in Bonnie little arms, Bonnie makes Woody wave goodbye. This causes Andy to give a sad but calming smile. Thanks, guys, Andy whispers, as Andy drives off. After Andy leaves, Bonnie's mom takes mom inside for lunch, leaving the toys on the porch, watching Andy's car fade into the distance down the street. So long, partner, says Woody. Woody smiles at the other toys, reaffirming that Andy did care for guys, and care for guys enough to leave guys with another child who will take care of guys and give guys many playtimes to come. Woody then begins to introduce Woody's friends to Bonnie's other toys. Some time afterward, the toys find a note in Bonnie's backpack from Ken. In the time since Lotso has been gone, Ken and Barbie have worked to abolish the unfair system that ran Sunnyside, and now the toys have an equal opportunity to move between the Caterpillar and Butterfly rooms. The toys at Sunnyside now enjoy Ken time there, and soon after, Sarge and Sarge's two paratroopers arrive, with both Ken and Barbie welcoming Sarge.