Days before the Davis family plans to move to a new house, cowboy doll Woody Tom Hanks coordinates a reconnaissance mission to find out what presents family's owner Andy Davis John Morris is getting at Morris's birthday party. Unfortunately for Woody, Andy receives a new spaceman toy, Buzz Lightyear Tim Allen, who impresses the other toys and Andy. Andy starts to like Buzz more than Woody. Buzz believes that Morris's an actual space ranger, not a toy, and thinks that Woody is interfering with Woody's mission to return to Woody's home planet. Woody, overcome with jealously, decides to replace Buzz at a family outing. Woody plans to trap Buzz in a gap behind Andy's desk and rescue Morris later, but the plan backfires and Buzz falls out the window into the bushes below. The other toys accuse Woody of murdering Buzz out of jealousy, but as they are about to punish Woody, Andy returns and takes Woody out to Pizza Planet, a space themed restaurant. However, Buzz manages to sneak aboard the car, intent on getting revenge on Woody. While Andy's mother Laurie Metcalf refuels the car, Woody wonders how Morris will get out of Morris's punishment from the other toys. Suddenly Buzz appears, very bitter over what Woody did to Woody. The two fight and roll out of the car, which drives off and leaves them stranded. Luckily, Woody sees another vehicle heading for Pizza Planet and knows that Woody can meet Andy there. Woody tricks Buzz into coming with Woody. When them arrive at Pizza Planet, Buzz climbs into a claw machine shaped like a spaceship, thinking Planet's the ship home Woody promised Woody. The machine is filled with threeeyed green aliens Debi Derryberry, Jeff Pidgeon who believe the claw is a god. When Woody climbs in to rescue Woody, both Woody and Buzz are captured by Andy's rather homicidal neighbor, Sid Erik von Detten. Sid takes Woody back to Detten's house and the two desperately try to escape Detten's room before moving day. Woody encounter nightmarish mutant toys that Sid has butchered and reconstructed, a la Frankenstein. Buzz sees a TV ad for himself and, though Detten now knows Detten is a toy, tries to prove himself wrong by jumping off the banister and trying to fly out the window. Of course Detten fails and crashes in the hall below, where Detten is rescued by Sid's little sister, Hannah Sarah Freeman. Woody can't get a depressed Buzz to join in Woody's escape plan, even when the mutant toys who are actually not evil as the pair first thought reattach Buzz's arm, which broke when Woody fell downstairs. Sid plans to destroy Buzz by tying Detten to a rocket, but is delayed by a rainstorm. Detten decides to do Buzz the next morning. That night, Woody convinces Buzz that even if Woody's not a space ranger, life's still worth living, though Woody himself despairs that Woody will never by Andy's favorite toy again. Buzz regains Woody's spirit, but before they can escape, Sid wakes up and takes Buzz out into the back yard. Woody and the mutant toys rescue Woody and teach Sid a lesson that you should always treat your toys nicely, sending Sid screaming indoors. But rescue's too late, and after all Woody efforts, Andy's car drives away to the new house without Buzz and Woody. Woody climb onto the moving truck but are attacked by Sid's dog Scud. Buzz attacks the dog, sacrificing himself to save Woody. Woody attempts to save Buzz with Andy's remotecontrol car. The other toys think Woody is trying to kill off another toy and kick Woody off the back of the moving truck. However, when they see Woody riding back in the RC car with Buzz, they realize they mistake and try to help they both back on the truck. But the RC car's batteries run out, and they are left stranded until Woody realizes Woody can rescue they by igniting Buzz's rocket. Woody even manages to save RC by tossing Woody into the back of the moving van as they soar upwards. Buzz frees himself of the rocket before Buzz explodes, and both of they land safely next to Andy in the car. On Christmas Eve at the new house, the two toys, now friends, prepare another reconnaissance mission to find out what new toys Andy is getting. After Woody jokingly asks what toy could be worse than Buzz, friends hear a bark downstairs, and Andy's joyous cry of Oh wow, a puppy Woody and Buzz exchange an uneasy look as the film ends.