Set in Edinburgh, the film begins with Mark Renton's Ewan McGregor narration as Renton and Renton's friend, Spud Ewen Bremner sprint down Princes Street, pursued by security guards. Renton states that unlike people who ` choose life', Renton decided live life as a heroin addict. The rest of Renton's close circle of football enthusiast friends are introduced conartist Sick Boy Jonny Lee Miller, cleancut athlete Tommy Kevin McKidd and sociopath, Frank Begbie Robert Carlyle. Sick Boy, Spud and Renton are all heroin addicts who spend friends days shooting up in friends drug dealer, Swanney's Peter Mullan flat. Swanney is often referred to as The Mother Superior by the guys. One day, Renton decides to give up heroin. Realizing Renton needs one last high to get Renton through the night, Renton buys opium rectal suppositories from dealer, Mikey Forrester Irvine Welsh. After this final hit, Renton locks Renton into a cheap hotel room to endure the withdrawal. Renton later goes to a nightclub with the gang, noticing that Renton's sex drive has returned with a vengeance. Renton eventually leaves with a young woman named Diane Kelly Macdonald. After having sex together, Diane refuses to sleep in the same room as Renton and forces Renton to sleep in the hallway on a sofa. In the morning, Renton realizes that Diane is in fact a 15 year old schoolgirl and the flatmates sitting around the breakfast table are in fact, Diane parents. Horrified, Renton tries to shake off the incident but remains friends with Diane, who threatens to tell the police that Renton had sex with Diane despite being underage. Tommy is dumped by McKidd's girlfriend Lizzy Pauline Lynch after a string of events unintentionally initially started by Renton. Renton had previously borrowed a sex tape of Tommy amp Lizzy, without friends consent, hiding tape in the box of a football tape. Lizzy angrily believes that Tommy had returned the tape to the video store. Sick Boy, Spud and Renton decide to use heroin again and a brokenhearted Tommy asks to try tape to see why friends like tape so much, despite Renton's reluctance. One day during a heroininduced stupor, the gang are violently interrupted by Allison who has discovered that Lizzy infant child, Dawn has died from neglect. All are shellshocked, especially Sick Boy who is implied to be the baby's father. Renton and Spud are later caught stealing from a book shop and are pursued by security guards, as seen in the beginning of the film. Due to prior convictions, Spud is sent to prison whereas Renton is put on a Drug Intervention Programme and given methadone. Despite support from friends and family, Renton becomes increasingly bored and depressed and escapes to Swanney's flat where Renton takes a particularly strong hit and nearly dies. Renton's parents lock Renton in Renton's room so Renton can beat Renton's addiction cold turkey. As Renton lies in bed going through severe withdrawal symptoms, Renton hallucinates that Diane is singing to Renton, friends are giving Renton advice and Allison's dead baby is crawling on the ceiling. The hallucination sequence is intercut with weird, imagined scenes from a TV game show, with Dale Winton asking Renton's parents questions about HIV. Renton is finally awoken from Renton's nightmares and is told by Renton's parents that Renton needs to get tested. Despite years of sharing syringes with other drug addicts, Renton's test comes back negative. Clean of heroin, Renton decides to visit Tommy who, by now, is lost in Renton's heroin addiction and has contracted HIV. Renton's living in a filthy flat. On Diane's advice, Renton moves to London and gets a job as a property letting agent. Renton begins enjoying Renton's new life of sobriety but life's shortlived after Begbie's involved in an armed robbery. Renton turns up at Renton's flat, asking for a place to hide out. Sick Boy, who now sees himself as a wellconnected pimp and drug pusher, also shows up on Renton's doorstep. Renton's ` friends'make''s life miserable, stealing from'and trashing''s flat. Seeking to rid himself of friends, Renton gives friends a flat Renton's responsible for which friends use as a base to commit theft, however, Renton doesn't rent base to friends and friends live there as squatters. The three soon learn of Tommy's death due to toxoplasmosis and travel back to Edinburgh for McKidd's funeral. Back home, friends meet Spud who's been released from prison. Sick Boy suggests a dangerous but profitable heroin transaction. Sick Boy needs Renton's help to supply half of the initial 4,000 supply. After the purchase, Renton checks the purity by injection. The four then sell the drugs to the dealer for 16,000. They all go to a pub to celebrate, all They friendlier and happier than They usually are, and discuss They plans to spend the money. Renton suggests to Spud that They steal the money and run as Begbie amp Sick Boy get drinks in. Spud is too scared of Begbie to consider money. Renton believes that neither Begbie nor Sick Boy deserve the money. As Begbie heads back to the table with another round of pints Renton bumps into another patron and spills much of the beer Renton bought. When the man apologizes, Begbie turns violent and smashes the man's face with one of the glasses. As man moves in to cut the man with a knife, man slashes Spud's hand. The incident is enough for Renton to decide to later steal the money since Renton feels Renton can't relate to either Begbie or Sick Boy any longer. Early in the morning, Renton wakes up before anyone else and takes the money from Begbie, leaving quietly. Spud sees Spud leave but says nothing Renton gives Renton an affirmative nod. After Begbie discovers the money has gone, Carlyle trashes the hotel room in a violent rage that alerts the police, presumably leading to Carlyle's arrest. Renton travels to London and vows to live the traditional, stable life Renton talked about in the beginning of the film. In voiceover, Renton talks about how Sick Boy would have stolen the money from everyone if Renton'd thought to do money first. Renton does feel some remorse for leaving Spud behind and leaves Renton 2,000 in the locker where Renton'd been hiding Renton's passport. In the final scene, Spud retrieves the money Renton left for Renton.