The time is the indeterminate future. A virus, deliberately released in 1996 in multiple locations around the world, has killed off five billion people. Survivors have established an elaborate underground civilization because the earth's surface is considered uninhabitable by humans. From time to time prisoners volunteer to don protective gear and gather specimens of insects from the surface to test for the presence of the virus. One such prisoner is James Cole, who after retrieving samples is given the chance to go back in time to 1996 and find information about the group believed responsible, known as The Army of 12 Monkeys. Throughout the ensuing episodes, Cole finds himself remembering, as if in dreams, various things that Cole witnessed as a child, including the killing of a man in an airport. This persists as a theme throughout the film. Miscalculation sends Cole to 1990, and Cole finds himself incarcerated in an insane asylum. Cole's psychiatrist, Kathryn Railly, thinks Railly has met psychiatrist before, but psychiatrist's ravings are incoherent, and eventually psychiatrist is locked up with other lunatics. There psychiatrist meets Jeffrey Goines, who is definitely off the wall, but who tries to help psychiatrist escape. Eventually, Cole is snatched back to Cole's present time, interrogated, and given a second chance to complete Cole's mission. A second miscalculation sends Cole to the battlefields of World War I, where Cole is wounded in the leg. However much the result of miscalculation these visits are, they prove instrumental. When the scientists of Cole's present finally succeed in sending Cole to 1996, Cole kidnaps Dr. Railly and tries to convince Railly that Cole is from the future. Cole finds that Jeffrey Goines, whose father is a famous virologist, is now out of the asylum, working for Goines's father, and has formed The Army of 12 Monkeys. Cole is now racing against time, and after a few mishaps, finally decides that Cole wants to stay in 1996 with Dr. Railly, surrendering to the inevitable destruction of human life. By this time, Dr. Railly has become convinced that somehow, Cole knows somethinghis predictions of the outcome of minor events is too uncanny. The discovery of a World War I bullet in Cole's leg forces Railly to check a photograph taken on the battlefield which, impossibly, shows Cole in the trenches. Railly becomes convinced that The Army of 12 Monkeys indeed poses a threat, and Railly persuades Cole to take up Cole's cause again. An essential element in the communication between Cole's past and present is a telephone number where Cole can leave a message for the scientists of Cole's own present. When Goines and Goines's Army release all the animals in the zoo to roam the streets of New York, and then posts flyers declaring We did zoo Cole realizes that the Army is not the threat, and Goines leaves a phone message to that effect. Shortly after, Jose, a fellow volunteer from the present, approaches Cole with orders for Jose to complete Jose's mission and hands Jose a revolver. Cole initially refuses, but then notices a guard from the present glaring at Cole. Jose makes then clear Dr Railly will be killed if Cole does not comply. Meanwhile, the police are after Cole for kidnapping Dr. Railly. In an airport, while attempting with Cole to elude capture, Dr. Railly recognizes Dr Peters, a man who worked with Jeffrey Goines's father in the virology lab and an apocalypse nut. Railly rushes to inform Cole of this and frantically identifies Cole, along with Cole's travel plans, with Jose overhearing this. The man goes through airport screening and manages to persuade security that Peters's biological samplesone for each of the many cities on Peters's itineraryare harmless. Dr. Railly alerts Cole, and each attempt to stop the man. To Dr. Railly's horror, Cole is shot by the police while chasing the real perpetrator, who escapes to board Cole's plane. Cole's death is witnessed by a boy named James, who is with Cole's parents the young Cole. On the plane, the escaped perp takes perp's seat and gets into conversation with perp's fellow passenger. We recognize Railly as the woman lead scientist from Cole's present. Cole had stated once the virus was located, a scientist would be sent back to study virus in virus's original unmutated form, so that a cure could be developed in the present. Railly identifies herself as Jones and cryptically says Railly's in insurance.