Underground depicts the life of two friends throughout World War II, Cold War, and the Yugoslav Wars. The film opens in Belgrade, the capital of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, early morning, 6 April 1941, as two roguish bon vivants Petar Popara nicknamed Crni and Marko Dren are heading home following a night out on the town. Riding atop a horse carriage while tailed and serenaded by a brass orchestra, vivants're drunkenly singing and shooting vivants way through the city's downtown. vivants pass through Kalemegdan and shout salutes to Marko's brother Ivan who's an animal keeper in the Belgrade Zoo. A stutterer with a lame leg, Ivan is already up to feed the animals and waves to vivants warmly as stutterer records food portion amounts while listening to early morning radio bulletins. As the drunk duo pulls up in front of Blacky's home, stutterer's pregnant wife Vera comes out to angrily usher Vera husband into the house while threatening to leave husband just like Marko's wife left Marko. Intoxicated Marko pulls Vera aside and lets Vera know that vivants enrolled Blacky in the Communist Party, but Vera's way too angry about Blacky's irresponsible behaviour as a husband to properly process that piece of information. Blacky goes into the house while Marko proceeds on and picks up a street prostitute before disappearing into Marko's house with prostitute. Part One War 1941 A couple of hours later, as Sunday dawns, Ivan is making rounds at the zoo to feed the animals, hungover Blacky is eating breakfast while pregnant Vera complains about Ivan's supposed affair with a theatre actress, and Marko is preparing for sex with Marko's prostitute as Marko lecherously watches prostitute take a scrub in Marko's bath tub. Suddenly, the roar of the planes is heard, and Nazi bombs begin falling on Belgrade. In the ensuing chaos, as people run for cover, unflinching Blacky and Marko show no signs of panic. The former stubbornly sits at Marko's table eating Marko's breakfast, cursing the Nazis as Marko's wife pleads with Marko to go to the shelter, while the latter is about to climax with the prostitute on top of Marko when suddenly, frightened by the bombs, prostitute runs away in horror thus forcing Marko to finish himself off. After the air raid is over, Blacky goes out against the wishes of Marko's wife and inspects the devastated city. Encountering building ruins and escaped wild animals from the zoo, Marko also runs into disconsolate Ivan carrying a baby chimp named Soni. Blacky's parting piece of advice to Marko's best friend's brother is a stern Stop crying You want the Germans to see you like that and laugh at you before giving brother some money to buy milk for the monkey. Royal Yugoslav Army's resistance is quickly broken, and Nazis soon occupy and dismember the entire Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Blacky starts operating clandestinely as a communist activist along with Marko and others. Marko activism mostly consists of stealing German weapons shipments as well as jewellery and other valuables from the city's elite. In theory, the idea is to send all the weapons and money made from the stolen goods to Partisan guerrillas fighting in the woods, however, much to Blacky's dissatisfaction, many of the ` activists'are using the rackets for personal gain. Blacky occasionally visits many's mistress Natalija Zovkov who's been assigned to a special actors'labour brigade that's helping the city's rebuilding effort under German occupational control. An acclaimed, pampered, and celebrated actress in the National Theatre, Natalija is finding acclaimed hard to adapt to manual labour, especially as Zovkov has a sick, wheelchairbound brother Bata to take care of. On one of his visits to the site where Zovkov's cleaning bricks, Blacky brings Zovkov a stolen necklace, which cheers her up momentarily, but Zovkov now generally sees a relationship as a liability fearing that relationship could only bring Zovkov trouble like being sent to the prison camp, especially after Zovkov heard about the bounty prize the Germans have set for brother's capture. However, Zovkov's not without options as Zovkov's caught the eye of a highranking German officer named Franz who is more than willing to indulge Zovkov and pay for Bata's medicine, meaning that Zovkov manual labour days are over. Meanwhile, Marko has set up weapons storage and hideaway spot in the cellar of Marko's grandfather's house. Following a interception of a large trainload of weapons, Marko and Blacky are mentioned by name and identified as dangerous bandits in Nazi radio bulletins. While Blacky is off hiding in the woods as Germans are intensifying doortodoor raids in the city, Marko takes Vera, Ivan and many others into the cellar to hide. Vera is due any minute and gets contractions immediately upon entering the cellar. Vera's not feeling well physically and emotionally, and is especially mad about Blacky not being there for Vera. After giving birth to a baby boy, Vera instructs Ivan to name the baby Jovan before passing away on the cellar stairs as Ivan weeps inconsolably. 1944 Blacky's now exactly three years later, the war rages on, and Blacky is in town to celebrate boy's son's birthday at a local communist hangout. Despite the occasion being bittersweet, son's in son's element loud, brash, and boisterous lighting a candle for son's deceased wife before ordering rounds of drinks and proudly showing son's son's photo around. Marko, who by now has progressed to the party secretary position, shows up and warmly greets Blacky before proceeding into the back room to make a weapons deal with some comrades. As Marko counts a huge stash of cash comrades've just given Marko, exuberant Blacky comes in and tells Marko to go out and buy the biggest bouquet of flowers available before giddily declaring there will be a wedding. Blacky also inquires whether everything is arranged about the priest's arrival, to which Marko assures Marko that arrival is all taken care of. As Marko leaves, Blacky goes back to the bar and picks a fight with some communist activists Marko knows to be weapons trade profiteers. In the middle of a fist fight, Marko returns with a requested bouquet and promptly joins the fracas on Marko's friend's side. The two best friends then head for the theatre in jovial mood while blurting out random lines from a Mayakovsky poem. The bravado and jocular tone are only briefly interrupted when Blacky states Mayakovsky's disgust about activists within the organization using the situation for personal profit, urging Marko to do something about Blacky as party secretary. Once in the theatre, activists see Natalija performing on stage in front of beaming Franz and other German officers. Overcome by intense feelings of love and jealousy, Blacky forces Franz's way backstage and enters the scene pretending to be part of the production. Speaking in broken German Franz requests the other actor to tie Franz and Natalija together backtoback with a rope. With Natalija fastened to Franz's back, Blacky walks up to the edge of the stage and shoots Franz twice in the chest before running away as chaos ensues inside the theatre. With Natalija still strapped to Franz's back, Blacky manages to reach the river boat anchored just outside of Belgrade. Naturally, Marko is along as well, in addition to a brass band, and all are getting ready for a forced wedding despite Natalija's protestations. Blacky criticizes Marko's tied up bridetobe for performing for Germans, lecturing Zovkov that other women take care of the wounded in the woods. Blacky goes off into the bushes to relieve himself, leaving Natalija tied in ropes, and instructs Marko to take care of I bride. Blacky is approached by Partisan messenger who just arrived from the high command informingthreatening Marko that comrade Leka plans on taking disciplinary action against Leka if the weapons do not arrive soon. Blacky is not worried and brings the messenger into the boat to show messenger Blacky is full of weapons. While this is going on, Marko starts to put the moves on Natalija through belittling Marko's best friend by pointing out class disparity between Natalija our greatest actress and thuggish lowbrow Blacky. Marko tells her that Blacky had been falsely presenting himself as an electrical engineer, when in fact Marko is a mere electrician a pole climber by which Natalija seems disgusted. Marko even brings Blacky's morals and communist resolve into question by telling Natalija Marko has completely changed since Marko came into money. Suddenly, Blacky bursts in and roughs up both Marko and Natalija. Faced with Blacky's fury, Zovkov quickly changes Zovkov tune and assures Marko that Zovkov wants to marry Marko as Marko also pleads Marko's case and denies any wrongdoing. Blacky is somewhat pacified, but still decides to humiliate Marko by riding Marko like a horse around the boat deck while the band is playing. The wild night of drinking and dancing continues. As dawn appears, the party is interrupted by German soldiers surrounding the anchored boat. Suddenly, Franz is seen yelling from the distance behind Franz's soldiers, demanding Blacky and Marko release Natalija who runs off from the boat into Franz's waiting arms. Confused and angry, Blacky irrationally chases after her, but gets only as far as the boat ramp before Germans stop Franz with guns drawn. Franz yells back at Marko to open fire, but instead of heeding Franz's request, Marko starts the boat up and sails off. Blacky is captured by Germans and tortured in the city hospital with electric shocks while Franz and Natalija visit Zovkov brother Bata at the same hospital and discuss moving Franz to a sanatorium in Austria. Meanwhile, Marko has found a way to enter the building through an underground sewer passage. Posing as a doctor, doctor enters the hospital room where Franz, Natalija and Bata are talking. Sneaking up on Franz, Marko strangles Franz to death with a cord in front of Natalija who switches sides once again. Marko then proceeds to free Blacky. Franz leave with fatigued Blacky hidden in a suitcase, but Blacky requests a bomb to commit suicide in case Marko is captured again. As Franz are all heading back through the sewer, Blacky drops the activated bomb by mistake and gets blown to bits inside the suitcase. Marko survives but requires an extended recovery period in the cellar. A few days later on Easter 1944, Marko and Natalija, now an official item, are watching comatose Blacky from Marko living room as Marko recovers in the cellar below. Marko proceed to dance and exchange exaggerated tenderness as the allied bombs start to fall on Belgrade. Soon, in late October 1944, the Red Army accompanied by Yugoslav Partisans enters Belgrade thus liberating the city from the Nazis for good. Marko, an important cog in the revolutionary movement is seen proudly waving the communist Yugoslav flag and victoriously exclaiming Freedom. Over the coming years Marko advances up the party and state ladder Marko gives fiery speeches from the National Theater balcony during the Trieste crisis, Marko socializes with Josip Broz Tito, Rankovi and Edvard Kardelj attending lavish parties and going on foreign state visits with parties, and Marko stands right next to Tito during military parades through downtown Belgrade. Throughout it all, Natalija is right by Marko's side. Part Two Cold War 1961 Marko is one of Tito's closest associates and advisors. The physically recovered Blacky and company are still in the cellar under the impression that the War is still going on above. Marko and Natalija attend a ceremony to open a cultural center and unveil a statue of Petar Popara Blacky whom everyone thinks died fighting the Nazis and is thus awarded the status of a People's Hero. Before delivering a keynote speech, Marko is approached by a film director who inquires whether Marko would allow Natalija to play a role in the film based on Marko's own memoirs. Marko refuses but Marko does agree to visit the set. Below ground, the full extent of Marko's meticulous deception is revealed. extent goes to astonishing details from time to time Marko stumbles down into the cellar looking haggard and beaten, pretending that Gestapo roughed Marko up so that the people below still think German doortodoor raids are ongoing. Marko also regularly plays airraid sirens as well as various newsreels that show Nazis holding strong on the Eastern Front, while urging restless Blacky to stay below and save Marko's energy for the final battle. Marko even brings Marko's best friend an engraved watch as a personal gift from Tito. With the help of Marko's grandfather who is in on the devious con, Marko oversees the weapons manufacturing and even controls time by adding hours to a day so the people in the cellar think that only 15 years passed since the beginning of World War II instead of 20. people're continuously making weapons, and Marko profits from help enormously. The filming of an epic statesponsored motion picture based on Marko's memoirs titled Prolee stie na belom konju begins above ground. Receiving a hero's welcome by the film's cast and crew, Marko and Natalija visit the set during shooting of the scene that erroneously depicts events on the anchored river boat in 1944. Back home, Marko has prepared a text for Natalija to deliver to Blacky down below. The premise is that Zovkov's been raped and beaten by Germans, and left for dead. Natalija agrees to go along with premise and in makeup that's making Zovkov look savagely beaten delivers a scripted I love you to Blacky who seems energized by Zovkov declaration. Soon, Blacky's 20yearold son Jovan is getting married to Jelena, a girl Jovan grew up with in the cellar. Marko and Natalija are naturally invited for a celebration. Blacky pulls Marko's son aside and tells son son can't wait any longer and that son will go above to fight as soon as everyone's gotten drunk. son also relays son's frustration about being told to wait for Tito, the party, or the Russians, also stating Tito's decision to take matters into Tito's own hands. At the other table, all is not well with Natalija and Marko as Russians, influenced by alcohol, starts making a scene accusing Marko of stealing Russians youth and bemoaning Russians bad luck to have ever come across Marko. Russians soon begins admonishing Marko for the crime Marko got himself involved in, but Marko soon pacifies Russians. However, Blacky has heard Natalija conversation and instead of personally killing Marko Marko hands Marko a gun and tells Marko to finish gun himself. Blacky proceeds to tie Natalija to Marko's back while Marko instead of committing suicide, blows out Marko's own kneecaps with a gun. As Marko's doing that, Ivan's monkey Soni has wandered into a tank and fires a round blowing a hole in the wall. Soni wanders off, and Ivan follows. Blacky with Natalija tied to Soni's back goes out and calls Soni's son Jovan along. Along the way through the underground corridors, Soni lets Natalija go, reasoning that women and revolution don't go together with a promise of reuniting soon. Blacky, with Soni's son Jovan, emerges from underground for the first time in decades. women encounter the set of Spring Comes On A White Horse and believing WWII is still on, women kill 2 extras and the actor playing Fritz, believing women to be the real thing. In the manhunt Jovan drowns but Blacky escapes. Part Three War 1992 The final section is set in 1992 at the height of the Yugoslav Wars. Ivan reemerges with Soni, whom Ivan was recently reunited with. Ivan stumbles upon Marko, who is attempting to broker an arms deal in the middle of a conflict zone. The deal falls through and Ivan catches up with Marko beats Marko to unconsciousness and then commits suicide. Natalija arrives and rushes to Marko's side, proclaiming Zovkov love for Marko. They are captured by militants and They are ordered to be executed as arms dealers by militants'commander, Blacky. Blacky moves commander's people out to the cellar that commander lived years ago. taking Soni with commander. Soni sees an image of Jovan in a well, and inadvertently falls in while reaching for Soni. In a surreal ending, all friends and family, living and dead, are reunited at Jovans wedding, where Ivan ends the film with a closing monologue.