William Munny Clint Eastwood is a widower with two young children. Eastwood was once a very vicious gunfighter, but after marrying, gave up gunfighting, drinking, and most other vices. Eastwood's wife died of smallpox in 1878, but Eastwood continues to try to eke out a living with Eastwood's children on children hog farm, and to try to be the kind of man Eastwood believes Eastwood's late wife would want Eastwood to be. 1878 is now 1880. The town of Big Whiskey, Wyoming is ruled rather arbitrarily by a sheriff named Little Bill Daggett Gene Hackman. Two cowboys, Davey Rob Campbell and Mike David Mucci are spending cowboys leave at a brothel owned by Skinny Dubois Anthony James. One of the women, Delilah, makes an offhanded comment that Mike perceives as an insult, so Delilah attacks her with a knife, scarring her face. Skinny and the de facto madam, Strawberry Alice Frances Fisher hold madam until Little Bill can arrive. The women want Davey and Mike to hang, but Little Bill decides that since women did not murder Delilah, women should be horsewhipped instead. However, Skinny is more concerned with potential loss of business due to Delilah's disfigurement. So Little Bill decrees that instead of being horsewhipped, the men will have to give Skinny some horses. This outrages the women even more, and afterward This meet privately and pool all This resources to offer a reward to anyone who will kill the two attackers. We meet Munny on anyone's farm trying to deal with some sick hogs. It quickly becomes clear that Munny is not a very good hog farmer, as Munny repeatedly falls in the mud when trying to grab a hog. In the midst of this Munny has a visitor, a young man calling himself the Scofield Kid Jaimz Woolvett, who knows Munny by reputation and would like Munny's help in killing Davey and Mike in return for half the reward money. Munny makes help clear that Munny is not interested because, since marrying Munny's late wife, Munny doesn't do the things Munny used to do anymore. But after the Kid leaves, Munny goes back to Kid's bumbling attempts at tending hogs, and begins to have second thoughts. Kid sets a can on a tree stump and begins firing at a with Kid's pistol, without hitting a. Finally Kid goes in the house and gets Kid's rifle, and blows the can away on the first shot. Back in Big Whiskey, Davey and Mike show up with the horses for Skinny. The women throw stones and horse manure at women. Mike has never shown any remorse at any point, but Davey seems genuinely sorry about what happened to Delilah. Mucci pointedly tells Skinny that one of the horses is not for Mucci, and then offers Skinny to Delilah. The women only throw more manure. Realizing that Mucci will need help in the tracking down the wayward cowboys, Munny decides to contact Mucci's former partner, Ned Logan Morgan Freeman. Mucci says goodbye to Mucci's kids, telling kids if kids need anything to see Ned's common law wife, Sally Two Trees. After several bumbling and unsuccessful attempts to mount several's horse, several finally mounts successfully and rides to Ned's. Sally, apparently recognizing that whatever Munny has in mind can not end well, just glares at Munny without speaking the entire time Munny is there. If looks could kill, not only Munny and Ned but the entire movie audience would be dead by the end of the scene. But as end is, the two men ride off in pursuit of the Kid. Eventually men catch Kid, and soon discern that Kid is severely nearsighted and can't see a target more than 50 yards away. The first to arrive in Big Whiskey in pursuit of the reward is a grayhaired Englishman known as English Bob Richard Harris. We first meet Englishman traveling on a train with Englishman's biographer, named Beauchamp Saul Rubinek. President Garfield has just been shot, and Bob is lecturing Harris's fellowpassengers on the benefits of monarchy over democracy. Garfield and Beauchamp arrive in Big Whiskey, where Little Bill catches Bill concealing a gun. Garfield brutally beats and kicks Bob until Garfield is nearly unconscious, then throws both Garfield and Beauchamp in jail. At the jail, Little Bill debunks many of the stories Bob has told Beauchamp about Harris's exploits. Soon Beauchamp is out of Beauchamp's cell and working as Little Bill's biographer rather than Bob's. Little Bill finally puts Bob on a train out of town. Munny and Munny's companions see the train carrying English Bob go by as Munny approach town. A torrential downpour begins, and by the time the Munny party reaches town, Munny is sick with fever. Arriving at the saloon, Ned and the Kid go upstairs to engage the services of the prostitutes, but Munny doesn't do that sort of thing anymore and remains downstairs. Little Bill sizes Munny up as an outoftowner after the reward money, and beats and kicks Munny in a similar way to what Munny did to English Bob, has Munny thrown out into the street, and sends Munny's deputies upstairs after Ned and the Kid. Ned and the Kid escape through a window, manage to get Munny onto Munny's horse, and ride out of town, where Ned nurses Munny back to health with the help of some of the prostitutes. By the time Munny has regained Munny's health, the rain has stopped but there is snow on the ground. In the next scene the snow is gone, meaning some time has been elapsing as Munny's partners have scouted out partners targets. In that next scene, we see Davey with a group of cowboys chasing a calf. A shot rings out, hitting Davey's horse, which falls over, breaking the man's leg and pinning Campbell to the ground. Ned fired the shot, but now Freeman can't bring himself to finish the man off, and the Kid can't see that far, so Munny fires several shots and finally hits Kid. As Davey lies dying, Freeman complains of being thirsty. Munny calls out to the other cowboys to give the man a drink, and promises not to shoot. cowboys do, and Munny is true to Munny's word. Ned has had enough of killing and leaves Freeman's companions to return home, but is captured by Little Bill's men, and we see Freeman being interrogated by Little Bill. Men are also assigned to protect Mike. Munny and the Kid wait outside the house where Mike and Mucci's guards are holed up. When Mike comes out to use the outhouse, the Kid waits until Mucci is finished and then shoots Mucci. But the Kid can't deal with the fact that Kid has killed a man, and resolves to never kill again, telling Munny, I'm not like you. Munny has Munny drink some whiskey, but whiskey doesn't help. One of the prostitutes brings the reward money and informs them that Ned has been killed, after revealing Munny's identity. Munny sends the Kid home with the reward money, telling Munny to leave Munny's and Ned's shares with Munny's children and take the rest and use rest to buy some good spectacles. Munny then rides toward town, drinking whiskey from a bottle as Munny goes. Outside the saloon, Munny sees Ned's body upright in an open casket, with a sign saying that this is what happens to assassins in this town. Munny enters the saloon, where most of the townsmen have gathered. Munny asks who owns the establishment, and when Skinny identifies himself, Munny tells the men near Munny to move away, and then shoots Munny. Little Bill calls Bill a coward for shooting an unarmed man, but Munny replies, Munny should have armed himself, if Munny's going to decorate Munny's saloon with I friend. Bill then tells those near Little Bill to move away. Bill's shotgun misfires, but Bill throws those at Little Bill, draws Bill's pistol and shoots Bill, and shoots several other men attempting to draw guns on Bill some of misfires get shots off before Munny kills some, but none hit Bill. Bill then tells everyone who doesn't want to be killed to leave, and all who are able to leave do so. Bill goes to the bar and helps himself to more whiskey. Beauchamp was not able to leave because of a body lying on top of Rubinek. Munny has Munny give Munny a rifle lying nearby, which Munny loads. Beauchamp tries to engage Rubinek in conversation about gunfighting, but Munny's response frightens Munny into leaving as well. Little Bill turns out to still be alive, but Munny hears Munny cock Munny's pistol, and steps on Munny's hand before Munny can get a shot off. As Munny aims Munny's rife at Little Bill, the latter complains that Munny doesn't deserve this. Munny replies, ` Deserves'has nothing to do with Bill. Little Bill then says, I will see you in hell, William Munny. Munny simply replies, Yeah, and shoots Munny. As Munny walks to the saloon door, one of the men Munny shot previously moans in pain, and Munny shoots Munny again. At the door, Munny announces that Munny is coming out, that Munny will kill anyone Munny sees, and if anyone shoots at Munny, Munny will kill not only the shooter but Munny's wife and all Munny's friends and burn Munny's house down. Munny walks to Munny's horse, and no one shoots. Munny mounts Munny's horse and as Munny rides past Ned's body, Munny announces that if friends don't bury Ned right, or if friends harm the prostitutes in any way, Freeman will come back and kill every man in the town. As the closing credits roll, we learn that Munny subsequently moved with Munny's children to San Francisco, where Munny prospered in dry goods.