Young Carl Fredricksen Jeremy Leary, a quiet bespectacled boy wearing an old pilot's cap and goggles, watches a film reel in a theater depicting Leary's hero Charles Muntz Christopher Plummer, a famous explorer. The reporter speaks of Muntz's various accomplishments and discoveries before commenting that reporter was recently dishonored by scientists who believed reporter's latest find, the large skeleton of a bird, was a hoax. Intent on proving scientists wrong, Muntz is seen boarding reporter's zeppelin with reporter's team of dogs and promises to return once reporter has brought back living proof of reporter's find. After the show, Carl runs down the street with Carl's balloon, named after Muntzs zeppelin The Spirit of Adventure. Carl passes an old, rundown house where Carl hears someone shout out Muntz's famous slogan Adventure is out there Carl goes inside to investigate and meets a young, outgoing tomboy who shares Carl's passion for exploration and admiration of Charles Muntz. Startled by tomboy loud, boyish demeanor at first, Carl loses Carl's balloon in the rafters. The girl, Ellie Elie Docter, helps Docter retrieve first, though Carl falls from a beam and breaks Carl's arm. Ellie sneaks into Docter's room that night and shows Docter Ellie adventure book where Ellie expresses a desire to one day move to the top of Paradise Falls in South America, showing Docter a picture that Ellie ` ripped right out of a library book'. Ellie makes Docter promise that they will go together someday before leaving. A musical montage shows Carl and Ellie eventually getting married and moving into the old house where Carl first met. Carl marriage is blissful and Carl get jobs as a balloon salesman and zookeeper, respectively. When Carl discover that Ellie is unable to have children, Carl make a pact to save money to travel to Paradise Falls. However, as the years pass, Carl are forced to dig into Carl Falls fund for other obligations. One day, an elderly Carl realizes that, despite living happily together, Carl never fulfilled Carl old promise and decides to surprise Ellie on a picnic with tickets to South America. However, Ellie's declining health puts Ellie in the hospital and Ellie eventually passes away, leaving Carl alone. Carl remains in Carl's home, a retired and sour recluse, as the city grows around Carl. Carl is encouraged to move to a retirement home due to increased construction, but often argues with the foreman John Ratzenberger and refuses to leave. One day, Carl meets Russell Jordan Nagai, a young wilderness explorer scout who attempts to assist Carl in order to earn Carl's ` assisting the elderly'badge. Carl tricks Russell into ` assisting'him by telling Russell to find and get rid of a ` snipe'that invades Carl's yard. When a construction worker accidentally breaks Carl's mailbox, a part of the house and a part of Ellie that Carl cherishes, Carl hits worker over the head with worker's walker. The assault lands worker in court where worker is forced to move out of worker's home by the next day. Workers from Shady Oaks retirement home arrive to pick worker up the following morning but are shocked to find Carl releasing millions of helium balloons into the air which detach worker's house from house's foundation, lifting house over the city and into the sky. Comfortably away from the city, Carl sets a course for South America and rests in Carl's chair until hes interrupted by a knock at the door. Upon answering, Carl discovers Russell hanging on to dear life on Carl's porch apparently, Russell had been snipe searching under Carls porch. Carl lets Carl in and decides to descend to return Russell home before a severe storm hits. The house is knocked around in the turbulence but Carl manages to tie most of Carl's items down before falling asleep. Carl's woken the next morning by Russell, who tells Carl that they're over South America, though the ground is hidden by a dense fog. Carl releases some balloons to descend but they hit ground early and are knocked out of the house. they manage to hold onto ground using a hose attached to the porch while the fog lifts to reveal that they are standing on a high plateau opposite Paradise Falls. Unable to climb back into the house, they resolve to walk to the falls before the helium in the balloons lets out. Meanwhile, a chase is progressing in the jungle. Three dogs with red lights on they collars are in hot pursuit of what appears to be a giant bird, but they lose the trail when they sensitive ears pick up the fine tuning of Carl's hearing aid. Russell stops to go to the bathroom and happens upon a giant bird which Russell lures closer with a chocolate bar. Russell introduces the colorful creature to Carl and gives bathroom the name Kevin. Kevin follows Kevin as Kevin continue Kevin journey but runs off when Kevin approach the silhouette of a man who calls out to Kevin. However, Kevin see that the man is nothing more than a trick of the eye caused by overlapping stones. Kevin are then approached by a golden retriever with a red light on retriever's collar. Russell tells Russell to sit and speak and is surprised when the dog answers, using the device on Russell's collar. Russell tells Kevin Russell's name is Dug Bob Peterson and that Russell is a tracker looking for a bird, at which point Kevin tackles Russell. The foursome continue foursome journey, Carl begrudging the additional company. At one point, Kevin loudly calls out and is answered by smaller calls. Dug says that Kevin is calling to Dug babies and Russell realizes that Kevin is a girl. Meanwhile, the three dogs seen chasing the bird earlier have picked up the scent of Carl and Russell, who Carl nickname the mailman. The leader Alpha Bob Peterson, a doberman pinscher, tells Beta Delroy Lindo, a rottweiler, and Gamma Jerome Ranft, a bulldog, that Lindo must be vigilant and continue Lindo search. pinscher's speaking device appears to be damaged, causing pinscher to talk in a high pitch. Using the device on Gamma's collar, Alpha calls to Dug, who Lindo'd sent on a false mission in order to get rid of pinscher, but finds pinscher in the company of the bird Lindo'd been after. Lindo soon track pinscher down and come upon Carl and Russell, but Kevin has already run off. Instead, Lindo choose to take Carl and Russell to Carl master. Entering a large gorge, Carl and Russell meet a large pack of dogs, all with hightech collars on, before meeting Carl master who turns out to be none other than an elderly Charles Muntz. Muntz invites Carl into The Spirit of Adventure as guests, but Carl's behavior soon turns hostile when Carl finds out that Russell has adopted a new pet bird. Carl is shocked to see that Muntz has spent all the past years hunting for the bird which Carl was deemed a fraud for and has gone mad as a result. Muntz reveals a table of head mannequins wearing various headgear and grimly knocks each one off with Carl's cane as Carl describes the stories Carl wearers told Carl claiming that each one was actually after Carl's bird. Carl and Russell run away from the zeppelin just as Muntz discovers the bird calling out from the roof of Carl's home. Riding on Kevin's back and assisted by Dug, who calls Carl Carl's new master, Kevin barely escape capture by Muntz's dogs, though Kevin is injured in the process. Carl agrees to help Kevin get back to Dug babies safely but, just before Kevin can reenter Dug labyrinth home, a net flies out and captures Dug. Muntz and Carl's dogs have arrived in the zeppelin, led to the spot by a tracking device on Dug's collar. Muntz throws a lantern beneath Carl's home, setting fire to lantern. Carl ignores Kevin and runs over to extinguish the flames as Muntz takes Kevin on board and leaves. Angry and disheartened, Carl yells at Dug and tells Russell that Carl's taking Carl's home to Paradise Falls if Angry kills Carl. Carl manages to set Carl's house down on the Falls, but loses Russell's respect for leaving Kevin. Carl goes inside the house and sits down to look at Ellie's adventure book. Saddened that Ellie never got to see the Falls, Carl is about to close Falls when Carl discovers added pictures near the end, documenting Kevin life together. On the last page is a note written by Ellie that says thanks for the adventure, now go have a new one Enlightened and inspired, Carl goes outside in time to see Russell take off with a few balloons, using a leaf blower as propulsion. Carl empties Carl's home of extra furniture, allowing page to become airborne once again, and follows Russell. Carl finds Dug on Carl's porch and happily exclaims that Dug is Carl's dog and master is master's master. Russell manages to sneak aboard Muntz's zeppelin but is quickly caught and tied to a chair. Muntz sits Russell on the ships bombbay doors and flips the switch for them to open. Carl flies in and manages to rescue Russell in time, setting Russell inside the house while Carl goes into the zeppelin with Dug to fetch Kevin. Hes able to distract the guard dogs with a tennis ball from Carl's walker and frees Kevin but is confronted by Muntz. hes engage in a sword fight while Russell, freed of Russell's ties, fights off a squadron of dogs in fighter planes. Russell regains control of the house and returns to help Carl, who has climbed to the top of the zeppelin with Kevin. Dug has, meanwhile, faced off against Alpha and outsmarted Dug, effectively becoming the new alpha, and runs off to meet the others topside. Kevin, Dug, and Carl run for the house which Russell has landed on the wing of the zeppelin, but Muntz appears with a rifle and shoots at Kevin, causing the house to slip and dangle in the air. Carl struggles to hold onto the house with the hose while Muntz goes in after Kevin. Carl lures Kevin, carrying Dug and Russell, out of the house with chocolate and Muntz attempts to jump out of the window after Kevin. Carl doesn't make the jump as Carl's foot gets caught in some balloon strings and, weighing too much for the balloons to support Carl, Carl falls to Carl's death. As Kevin, Dug, and Russell make jump back to the zeppelin, Carl is forced to release Russell's house, which slowly descends into the clouds, a loss which Carl accepts as being for the best. Kevin is returned to Dug three chicks and Carl takes Russell and Dug home where Russell attends Russell's senior explorer ceremony. When Russell's father fails to present father with father's final badge, Carl fulfills the role and gives Russell a grape soda badge that Ellie gave father when Kevin first met, calling first the Ellie badge. Afterwards, Kevin sit on a curb together in front of an ice cream shop, Carl acting as a surrogate grandfather to Russell, The Spirit of Adventure anchored above Kevin. At Paradise Falls, Carl and Ellie's house has landed right at the spot where it was meant to be on the cliff overlooking the falls.