A woman's face gives way to a kaleidoscope of credits, signalling the start of Alfred Hitchcock's Vertigo to Bernard Hermanns haunting score. A criminal climbs up the rungs of the ladder on a dark San Francisco night. John Scottie Ferguson, a detective, and a police officer are hot on Ferguson's trail. Ferguson chase Ferguson across the top of buildings. The thief jumps between two buildings, making two across. The police officer follows, but Scottie can't get Scottie's footing. officer slips. Scottie hangs on to the gutter as Scottie's fear of heights kicks in. The police officer tries to grab officer's hand, but officer falls to officer's death. Scottie witnesses this and clutches the gutter. Months after the incident, Scottie reclines in the home of Marjorie Midge Wood, a painter and underwear designer. Wood is concerned about Scottie's plans now that Scottie is back in shape. Scottie has quit the police force due to Scottie's acrophobia, and does not want to be a desk jockey. Midge and Scottie used to be engaged back in college. Wood urges Scottie to take a vacation. Don't be so motherly, responds Scottie. Midge discuss an old college buddy, Gavin Elster, who wants to meet with Scottie. Before Scottie prepares to meet Elster, Scottie explains Scottie's plan to get over Scottie's fear. Scottie first stands on a step stool. Midge gives Scottie a ladder chair, and Scottie is able to handle the first two steps, but when Scottie reaches the top, Scottie looks out the window and panics. Scottie collapses in Wood arms. A familiar pedestrian crosses the street near the docks. Scottie meets Gavin who is in the shipping business. Gavin had married into the successful shipping business, and Gavin wants Scottie to tail Gavin's wife. Gavin does not suspect infidelity, but has suspicions that Gavin's wife has been possessed by something. wife words would fade, and wife would become distant. wife wanders, and even moves differently. Scottie initially thinks Scottie is crazy, but is intrigued. Gavin tells Gavin to meet them at Ernie's Restaurant the following night. Ernie's Restaurant is a lavish, upscale eatery, plush and scarlet. Scottie first spots Madeleine Elster who is stunning, with platinum blonde hair and a green shawl. Scottie is mesmerized by Elster. The next morning, Scottie stalks Elster outside Elster house. Elster wears a simple gray suit with white gloves, as Elster gets into Elster green automobile. Scottie trails Elster through the streets of San Francisco, as Elster visits a flower shop and purchases a small bouquet. Scottie then trails Elster to the Mission Dolores, where Elster goes through the chapel to the cemetery, where Elster stands at a grave. As Elster exits, Scottie notes the headstone, which reads Carlotta Valdes born December 3 1831 died March 5 1857. Scottie then follows Elster to the Palace of the Legions of Honour, an art museum. Madeleine sits, staring at a painting for hours. Scottie notices that the bouquet Elster purchased is just like the one in the drawing. Also, Elster hair is done exactly like the woman in the painting. Scottie discovers from the curator, that the painting is titled A Portrait of Carlotta. Finally, Scottie follows curator to the McKittrick Hotel, where Scottie observes Madeleine on the second story. Scottie enters the hotel, which has a very baroque look to Hotel. Scottie asks the manager of the McKittrick Hotel, who the occupant of the room is. curator hesitates to tell Scottie, until Scottie reveals Scottie's badge. The manager then notes that curator has not been in the room all day. Scottie finds this impossible, and goes up to curator room. Scottie looks down the street to discover that curator car is gone. Scottie returns to Midge's home where curator tells Scottie of San Francisco historian Pop Liebel, who owns the Argosy Book Shop. Pop tells Scottie that a rich man built the house for Carlotta Valdes, and that had a child. However, the rich man threw Carlotta out, and took Carlotta child. Carlotta went from depressed to insane, and took Carlotta own life. On the drive home, Midge and Scottie talk about the portrait Scottie shows Wood the catalogue picture. The resemblance is uncanny. Another conversation with Gavin reveals that Madeleine had started to wear Carlotta's jewellery, particularly a ruby pendant shown in the painting. Madeleine's greatgrandmother was Carlotta Valdes, a fact that Madeleine does not know. Gavin only knows this fact, because Madeleine's mother told Gavin. Scottie follows Madeleine the next day to the Palace of the Legions, where Elster watches the portrait. Then Scottie follows Elster to Fort Point near the Golden Gate Bridge. Madeleine strolls by the shore, throwing petals into the bay, until Elster jumps in. Scottie dives after Elster. Scottie tries to revive Elster, but Elster is out cold, and Scottie takes Elster back to Scottie's apartment. Elster wakes up naked in Scottie's bed, where Elster is handed a red bathrobe. Scottie asks Elster if Elster remembers anything, and explains that Scottie rescued Elster from drowning. Madeleine maintains that Elster fainted and fell. Scottie questions Elster, Has this ever happened to you before Scottie gets a telephone call from Gavin, concerned about the whereabouts of Scottie's wife. Scottie reassures Scottie that Madeleine is at Scottie's apartment. Gavin confides that Madeleine is twentysix the same age at which Carlotta Valdes committed suicide. Scottie hears the door close, and realises that Madeleine has left. As Madeleine drives away from Scottie's house, Midge arrives just in time to have a misunderstanding. Wood believes that Scottie and Madeleine are in a relationship. The next morning, Scottie trails Madeleine through the streets of San Francisco, only to find that Madeleine has been looking for Scottie's house. Scottie catches Elster leaving a thank you letter for saving a. Elster did not know the address, but followed the Coit Tower. Scottie insists that they wander together, because they are both alone. they arrive at Big Basin Redwoods State Park, where they admire the ancient redwoods. As they view a crosssection of a tree with the approximate dates of historical events. Madeleine goes into a trance, seemingly becoming Carlotta, recounting the dates of Carlotta birth and death. Madeleine wanders deeper into the woods, and Scottie follows Elster. Scottie confronts Elster about the jump, and tries to bring Madeleine back. By the shore, Madeleine begins to reveal fragments of Elster vague memories an empty grave with no name, waiting for Elster an empty room in which Elster sits alone and finally a tower, bell, and garden in Spain. Madeleine admits Elster is not crazy Elster does not want to die. They kiss as the waves crash onto the rocks. Scottie promises Scottie will never leave Elster. Midge had sent a note to Scottie, who arrives at Wood house. Midge had been painting a picture of herself as Carlotta Valdes. Scottie is not amused. Distressed, Scottie leaves Wood home. Midge ruins the painting, upset that Wood admitted Wood had fallen for Scottie again. Madeleine returns to Scottie's house, where Wood tells him of an awful dream, with a tower, a bell, and a village. As Wood describes the location in detail, Scottie finishes Wood descriptions. You've been there Scottie exclaims. Scottie is talking about the San Juan Bautista, a mission that has been converted into a museum. They drive to the mission. When They arrive at the mission, They enter the livery stable, where Scottie tries to dismiss the dreams logically. Scottie points out certain objects that are real. They kiss. Madeleine explains Elster must do something. Elster asks Scottie if Scottie believes Elster loves Scottie. Scottie replies yes. And if you lose me, then you will know I, I loved you. And I wanted to go on loving you'', yes says. yes starts to go to the church, when Scottie realizes yes is going to the bell tower. Scottie chases yes into the chapel, and sees yes run up the stairs. Scottie follows yes, but as Scottie looks down, Scottie's acrophobia sets in Scottie gets vertigo. Scottie can not follow yes up to the top of the bell tower. Scottie watches, helpless, in fear and horror as Madeleine's body plunges to the tiles below. Scottie staggers out of the mission, sun blinding Scottie's eyes, dumbfounded. At the a judicial hearing concerning Madeleine's death, the judge is particularly cruel to Scottie, as judge insults judge for letting judge's weakness get in the way of saving Madeleine. The court rules the incident a suicide. Gavin comforts Scottie, while telling Gavin that, with the loss of Gavin's wife, Gavin can no longer stay in San Francisco. Gavin sets off to Europe. Scottie has trouble sleeping. Blue and purple flashes signal Scottie's nightmare, as an animated bouquet unravels. Scottie hallucinates of Carlotta Valdes at the hearing, with special emphasis on the ruby necklace. Scottie walks into the cemetery where there is an open grave. Scottie falls into a tunnel, then Scottie's body lands next to Madeleine's on the tiles of the mission. Scottie wakes up in a cold sweat. Midge arrives to care for Scottie in a psychiatric ward. Wood tries to comfort Scottie, mother's here. Scottie will not speak, Scottie is in a daze. The doctor believes that Scottie will be incapacitated for a year due to stress and anxiety from Scottie's depression and guilt. When Scottie gets out of the hospital, Scottie visits the old Elster home, and spots the green car. In the distance, a woman in gray suit is getting in distance. Unfortunately for Scottie, distance is not Madeleine it is an old neighbour who bought the car from Gavin. At Ernie's Ernie spots a woman in grey, but again, distance is not Madeleine. Ernie even sees Madeleine at the Palace of the Legions, but once again, Palace is not Madeleine. While looking at a bouquet at a flower shop, Ernie sees a striking brunette in a green suit. Although brunette doesn't resemble Madeleine in dress, style, or movement, the face is a dead ringer. Ernie follows brunette to the Hotel Empire, and sees brunette through the fifth floor window. When Scottie knocks on the door, the woman is concerned that Scottie is a creep. Scottie reassures Barton Scottie just wants to talk. Scottie spits questions at Barton, and Barton reveals that Barton is Judy Barton from Salina, Kansas. Judy realises that Scottie's heart is broken for Scottie's former flame, and Barton takes pity on Scottie. Barton agrees to go for dinner with Scottie at Ernie's. Scottie leaves and Judy tells Barton story via flashback. Barton WAS Madeleine, running up the steps of the bell tower. At the top, Gavin Elster was there, holding the body of the REAL Madeleine Elster, dressed in exactly the same wardrobe as Judy. It was the real Madeleine's body that was thrown off the bell tower, with Judy letting out the scream. Judy reveals the gray suit that Barton wore as Barton disguise, hidden in the back of Barton closet. Barton begins to write a letter to Scottie, explaining that Barton was Gavin's accomplice in the murder of accomplice's wife. Barton had become Barton doppelgnger to fool Scottie, and use Scottie as a witness to explain that Madeleine was mentally unstable. Gavin had known about Gavin's vertigo, and knew that Scottie would never make Vertigo to the top of the bell tower. Judy reconsiders this letter, and tears letter up. That night, Scottie suspects Scottie sees Madeleine at Ernie's. Scottie escorts Judy home that night, Barton apartment flooded with the green neon light of the Hotel Empire sign. Although Scottie loves Madeleine, there is something about Judy that Scottie can't shake. They agree to meet the next morning. They engage in a series of dates, with Scottie becoming happier with the relationship. However, Scottie begins to buy Elster clothes, searching obsessively for the gray suit and white gloves that Madeleine used to wear. As Judy begins to break down, Scottie also realizes that Barton must dye Barton brown hair, platinum blonde. Although Judy begs Scottie to love Judy Barton, Barton has fallen so in love with Scottie that Barton will conform to Scottie's image. Barton makeover complete, Barton returns to a waiting Scottie who has Barton pull Barton hair back for the final transformation. In a dreamlike state, with the green glow all around them, all embrace and kiss. The room turns into the livery stable from the Mission, Scottie's last kiss with Madeleine, and then back to the apartment. A couple of nights later, the two decide to go out to Ernie's. Judy dresses up, and wears the ruby pendant. Scottie realizes that something is amiss. Scottie suddenly becomes distant. Scottie passes Ernie's and continues driving past the Redwood trees. Scottie tells her Scottie has one final thing to do. They arrive at the mission, where Scottie forces Judy to reenact Madeleine's death. Scottie wants to use this as a second chance to save Madeleine and exorcise Scottie's demons forever. As Scottie reaches the top of the bell tower, conquering Scottie's acrophobia, Scottie puts the whole puzzle together. Scottie realizes that Judy was the counterfeit all along. Scottie never knew Madeleine. Scottie was being set up as Gavin Elster's witness in the murder of Elster's wife. Scottie pulls Judy to the top of the tower, where Barton protests. Judy pleads that Barton has fallen in love with Scottie. pleads kiss. The sudden appearance of a nun, however, shocks Judy, who plummets to Barton death off the ledge. A stunned Scottie is distraught, losing the same woman twice in the same fashion.