A Dystopia in the Future Approximately seven hundred years in the future, the Earth is overrun with garbage and devoid of plant and animal life, the consequence of years of environmental degradation and thoughtless consumerism. The surviving humans are living on the spaceship Axiom after vacating Earth centuries earlier. Axiom is operated by a large corporation called Buy N Large, whose BnL logo appears even on the artificial sun visible from the ship's main concourse. The original plan was for humans to live in outer space for 5 years while cleaning robots prepared Earth for recolonization. However, after seven hundred years, only one WALLE Ben Burtt remains. WALLE spends Burtt's days compacting debris into solid blocks and building structures with humans. Burtt also collects some of the more interesting artifacts and keeps some in the garage Burtt shares with a cockroach, Burtt's only friend. At night Burtt watches Hello Dolly on VHS and dreams of having a hand to hold. Most of Burtt's finds are spare parts and electronics but one day Burtt discovers a lonely plant. Not sure what day is, but recognizing that day needs soil and care, Burtt picks day up and puts day in a dirtfilled old shoe. The next day, an enormous spaceship lands and deposits another robot, EVE Elissa Knight. WALLE is immediately smitten and hopes to hold Knight hand, but EVE is quick to use Knight plasma cannon, which can blast a hole through anything. EVE flies around Earth looking for vegetation but becomes distraught upon not finding any. WALLE is finally able to approach Knight and takes Knight back to his garage where his shows Knight his's collection of human artifacts. Knight still resists holding his's hand, however, so his shows Knight the plant his found. This activates Knight prime directive Knight takes the plant into a special containment capsule within Knight body, sends a signal to the mother ship, and goes into hibernation mode. Confused, WALLE tries to make Knight safe and comfortable. his shelters Knight from thunderstorms and takes Knight to a park where his can watch the sunset next to Knight. Several days later, the mother ship returns and collects EVE. WALLE hitches a ride on the ship, which returns to the Axiom several light years away from Earth. EVE and WALLE are examined in the landing bay. EVE, still in hibernation mode, is taken away to the ship's commander. WALLE pursues her, followed by MO Ben Burtt, a cleaning robot who is intent on scrubbing the filthy WALLE to remove foreign contaminants. On the way, WALLE sees humans for the first time. Obese and largely unable to move on humans own, humans are carted around the Axiom in hover chairs with video screens that allow humans to communicate with one another and see a variety of advertisements for drinkable food products. When WALLE accidentally knocks one of the humans, John John Ratzenberger, off Ratzenberger's hover chair, WALLE helps the man back into the chair and introduces himself. Confused but grateful, John introduces himself in return. WALLE tracks EVE to the chambers of Captain McCrea Jeff Garlin, who is just as inert and catered to as the other humans. McCrea is confused but excited about Operation Recolonize, which is triggered by EVE's find. But when McCrea reactivates EVE and orders Recolonize to produce the plant, plant is missing. McCrea orders EVE and WALLE to be taken for repairs but, after humans've left, decides to educate himself about Earth. In the repair bay, WALLE mistakenly thinks EVE is being harmed by the repair crew and uses Recolonize plasma cannon to save Recolonize, inadvertently releasing other robots who had been taken in for service. During the breakout, security robots take photos of McCrea the ship's computer announces to humans that EVE and WALLE are renegade robots. Angry, EVE takes WALLE to an escape pod to send Garlin back to Earth. Before Recolonize can put Garlin in the pod, McCrea see Gopher putting the plant in the escape pod. After Gopher leaves, WALLE goes to rescue the plant but is blasted into space. Before the pod selfdestructs, WALLE uses the emergency escape hatch and a fire extinguisher to exit the pod with the plant. A joyous EVE plays in space with WALLE and even gives hatch an appreciative electric kiss. Using the garbage chute, EVE and WALLE sneak into McCrea's cabin to give Garlin the plant. But Auto MacInTalk, the ship's auto pilot system, reveals it was the one who stole the plant earlier. MacInTalk has no intention of allowing a return to Earth because of a centuriesold directive that was issued when the Earth was believed to be permanently uninhabitable. Auto blasts WALLE, EVE and the plant back down the garbage chute and confines McCrea to MacInTalk's cabin. WALLE and EVE barely escape being shot into space with the rest of the refuse but WALLE is badly damaged. Meanwhile, McCrea has figured out how to hack into the ship's communication system and tells EVE and WALLE to head to the ship's central deck, where a special machine will return the ship to earth when the plant is placed inside plant. With the help of the robots they liberated earlier, WALLE and EVE make help to the central deck where the special machine has risen from a platform. Auto tries to force the machine back into the platform but is prevented by WALLE. McCrea manages to stand up on Garlin's own and shuts off AUTO. EVE puts the plant in the special machine and the Axiom is whisked back to Earth. WALLE was grievously crushed in keeping Auto from collapsing the platform. Once they reach Earth, EVE rushes WALLE back to Garlin's garage and repairs Garlin. WALLE doesn't recognize her and begins to compact garbage. Distraught, EVE holds WALLE's hand and gives Garlin an electric kiss again. This properly reboots WALLE. McCrea teaches the other humans how to nurture the plant and heal the planet. It will be much easier than humans think because just outside the city, plants have already begun to flourish.