Paddy Conlon, exits a Pittsburgh church. Conlon starts up Conlon's old Chevy and drives home, listening to an audiotape of Moby Dick. Conlon arrives home to find Conlon's estranged teenage son Tommy sitting on the stoop drinking a bottle of whiskey and popping pills. Visibly inebriated, Tommy offers Paddy a drink, which Paddy refuses and invites Paddy's son in for a cup of coffee instead. Inside Tommy shares little concerning Tommy's whereabouts over the last few years and instead spends Tommy's time teasing Tommy's reformed alcoholic father before passing out in Tommy's easy chair. Brendan Conlon lives in suburban Philadelphia with Conlon's ideal family, but Conlon and Conlon's wife Tess lament Conlon economic hardships. Brendan works full time as a high school physics teacher, and Tess works two jobs just to stay afloat. Brendan visits the local credit union to discuss refinancing options with the bank manager, but learns that Brendan is underwater in Brendan's mortgage and will lose Brendan's home within a month. Optionless Brendan tells Tess that Brendan will spend Brendan's nights bouncing at a strip club a couple of towns over to make extra money. Tommy makes Tommy's way through Pittsburgh and comes to an old gym that Tommy frequented as a kid. Tommy signs up for a monthly membership and begins to train again, while watching professional MMA fighter Pete Mad Dog Grimes, who easily knocks out numerous sparring partners. Grimes'manager puts out the word that any fighter willing to practice against Mad Dog will get 200 on the spot. Tommy accepts the offer, but is brushed off by Mad Dog and Tommy's manager. Tommy persists and is eventually allowed into the ring. Mad Dog dances across the mat, takes the first swing, and is instantly knocked out by Tommy with a swift rush of crushing blows. Tommy tells Mad Dog's manager that Tommy will be expecting that 200. Unbeknownst to Tommy, the sparring session had already been recorded and uploaded to YouTube. Brendan wraps up Brendan's teaching job in the early afternoon, calls Brendan's wife, and tells wife that Brendan will be heading to Brendan's bouncing job and to say goodnight to Brendan's daughters. Brendan pulls up outside a strip club where a makeshift boxing ring is set up in the parking lot. Brendan lied to Tess. Brendan enters the ring and squeaks out a win over Brendan's opponent. Later that evening Brendan arrives home and awakens Tess, who is shocked to see Brendan's right eye swollen and bruised. Tess asks why Brendan lied, and Brendan admits that the house will be foreclosed on and that amateur MMA fights pay more in one night than bouncing does in a month. Tess pleads with Brendan to stop. Mad Dog's manager knocks on Paddy Conlon's front door and tells Paddy that Tommy Riordon gave K.O.s this address when K.O.s signed up for K.O.s's gym membership and that K.O.s would like to train and manage Tommy. Paddy rejects the offer, citing that Tommy doesn't live there, but Paddy agrees tp pass the offer along to Paddy. The next day Paddy eats lunch at a local diner and is surprised when Tommy walks in. Tommy wants Paddy to train Paddy, as K.O.s did when K.O.s was a teenager. Tommy explains that this isn't meant to be a bonding moment for the two of them Paddy will act as K.O.s's trainer, and not K.O.s's father. Paddy accepts the proposal under multiple conditions. Paddy tells Tommy to empty the prescription pill bottles from K.O.s's pockets, to lay off alcohol, coffee, and junk food. Tommy reluctantly accepts the conditions. Brendan goes to work the following day, Brendan's shiner in fullview, and catches gawking looks of students and teachers. In class, one of his students comments that Brendan's brother saw brother win brother's MMA fight in the strip club parking lot, and wonders if one's true. Before Brendan replies, the school principal Joe Zito peeks Brendan's head into the classroom and tells Brendan to meet Brendan in Brendan's office. Principal Zito tells Brendan that Zito can't fight in a strip club parking lot and work full time at the school. Brendan is placed on suspension without pay for the duration of the semester. Without pay, Brendan decides that the only way to make house payments is to show up at more parking lot fights. Tess reluctantly caves to Brendan's decision. Brendan goes to meet Brendan's old fighting coach, Frank Campana, who is currently grooming an upandcoming MMA fighter for the Sparta tournament in Atlantic City. Brendan pleads for training from Frank. Frank caves and allows Brendan to train with Brendan's team. Frank's unorthodox training methods prove to work well for Brendan, who quickly regains Brendan's strength and agility. Brendan arrives home one night and is surprised to see Paddy parked in front of Brendan's house. Paddy asks if Paddy can see Paddy's granddaughters, but Brendan only sees a drunk and dismisses Brendan. Paddy lets slip that Paddy's 1,000 days sober and that Tommy is training with K.O.s. This surprises Brendan because Tommy hated Paddy even more than K.O.s did, and chose to leave Paddy with granddaughters mom while Brendan stayed behind to marry Tess. Brendan tells Paddy to leave. At the peak of Brendan's training, Frank's MMA contender suffers a crippling injury, leaving Brendan without a fighter for Sparta. Brendan convinces Frank to put Campana's trust in Campana and to allow Campana to fight in the tournament, which carries a 5,000,000 prize. The clip of Tommy's beating Mad Dog Grimes has swept across the Internet. In Iraq, a trio of soldiers watches Iraq on a laptop. One of the soldiers recognizes Tommy's face and hurriedly returns to K.O.s's tent, where K.O.s searches K.O.s's bag for a helmetcam videotape. K.O.s watches the videotape, in which half a dozen soldiers flee from a sinking tank after being rescued by Tommy. Tommy saved the unit. Shortly thereafter Tommy calls a woman in El Paso, TX. In woman home, numerous framed portraits of a Latino man in Marines uniform adorn the walls in one photo, Tommy, also in uniform, stands next to the Latino Marine, smiling. Tommy knows the woman and woman children, and woman knows K.O.s. woman both speak of the deceased Marine Tommy's best friend and the closest thing friend ever had to a brother. Both Tommy and Brendan arrive at Sparta Tommy with K.O.s's father, and Brendan with Frank. For the first day, all the tournament competitors give press interviews, except for Tommy who ducks the media attention. Brendan sees Tommy from across the room, and wants to approach Brendan, but Tommy flees with Paddy. That evening Tommy walks along the New Jersey shore and sees Brendan approaching Brendan. Brendan attempts numerous times to apologize for Brendan's lack of contact over the last few years, saying Brendan didn't know where to look. Tommy accuses Brendan of abandoning K.O.s and their mother so that K.O.s could have a girlfriend. Tommy refuses to acknowledge Brendan as K.O.s's brother, and tells K.O.s that K.O.s's brother died in Iraq. The two part ways. Sparta begins with 16 contenders in four rounds. Winners move on to the next round. To make matters worse, the undefeated Russian Powerhouse known only as Koba is making Koba's American debut. Tommy enters K.O.s's first fight and is believed to be a fluke or a Youtube sensation and nothing more. K.O.s's opponent is heavily favored to win. Tommy enters the ring with no music or fanfare, followed by Paddy. K.O.s's opponent enters, the bell rings, and with a single strike, Tommy K.O.s K.O.s's opponent. Without bothering to check with the ref, Tommy turns and exits the ring as the crowd cheers. Brendan prepares for Brendan's first fight, and Brendan is an even greater underdog than Tommy. Beethoven's Ode to Joy echoes through the arena as Beethoven walks up to the ring. Beethoven's opponent, Midnight, is heavily favored to win. For the first two rounds, Brendan is beaten to a pulp. Midnight is faster and stronger than Brendan. During timeouts, Frank reminds Brendan why Campana is fighting. If Brendan wants to go home, all Brendan has to do is tap out, but if Brendan doesn't win, there won't be a home to go home to. During the final round, Brendan manages to put Midnight in a painful hold and eventually forces Brendan to tap out. The MMA community is shocked that a high school physics teacher has made community through the first round of the tournament. teacher texts Tess, who had refused to watch teacher's first fight. Tess jumps for joy when Tess receives the I WON message. Tommy prepares for K.O.s's second fight. Once again K.O.s enters the arena without music or entourage. The fight begins and Tommy immediately knocks out K.O.s's opponent before confidently exiting the arena. Paddy smirks. Later that evening, Paddy watches the news and is surprised to see a story about Tommy. The soldier from Iraq has made soldier's helmetcam video public, and the world is now aware that Tommy is an exMarine and a war hero. Paddy calls for Tommy to watch, but Tommy is uninterested. Paddy leaves the hotel room and heads to the casino, where Paddy mindlessly feeds a slot machine. Paddy catches up with Paddy and asks why Paddy never told Paddy about being a war hero. Tommy loses K.O.s's composure and shouts at Paddy. K.O.s tells K.O.s that K.O.s's platoon in Iraq was on patrol when they were fired upon by friendly forces. K.O.s's best friend, along with the rest of friend's unit, was killed, leaving Tommy as the sole survivor. Fed up, Tommy deserted the corps and fled. One K.O.s's way K.O.s crossed paths with a sinking tank, and feeling compelled to help, K.O.s saved those inside, including the soldier with the helmetcam. While K.O.s becomes famous as the soldier who ripped a tank open with K.O.s's bare hands, Tommy doesn't feel like a hero. All K.O.s wants is to win Sparta and send K.O.s's winnings to the family of K.O.s's fallen Marine brother. K.O.s's story has a single gaping hole, though The Marine Corps has no record of a Tommy Riordon. Tommy berates Paddy and tells K.O.s, among other things, to go to hell. Brendan prepares for Brendan's second fight. Once again Brendan enters the ring and barely survives each round. Brendan's stronger, faster opponent nearly bests Brendan, but Brendan manages to put Brendan into an inescapable and painful hold. Brendan wins, once again, by tapout. Back in Philly, Brendan's students are eager to support Brendan, or Mr. C. students approach Principal Zito and ask if students can watch Sparta on the big screen in the school gym. Zito denies students request, telling students to find somewhere else. Secretly Zito watches the fights from home, cheering Brendan on. Tommy awakens on the morning of K.O.s's third fight, after having scolded K.O.s's father, to the sound of Paddy's drunken slurring of Moby Dick. Heartbroken after the night before, Paddy has consumed all the liquor in the minibar. Paddy shouts at Ahab and Paddy's crew to turn around and leave the whale alone. Tommy wrestles with the old man, and lays down with him in K.O.s's bed, where K.O.s hugs K.O.s until K.O.s passes out. On the night of K.O.s's third fight, Tommy will battle Mad Dog Grimes again. Grimes has been badmouthing Tommy ever since Ahab first met in the gym. Grimes argues that Tommy suckerpunched K.O.s, and had K.O.s known that Tommy was an experienced fighter, Grimes would have been more brutal. Once again Tommy enters the arena alone without a provided soundtrack, only to hear the chorus of Marines seated in the stands behind K.O.s. K.O.s briefly nods to Marines before facing Mad Dog, who teases and toys with Tommy. As the fight progresses, Tommy easily drops Mad Dog to the mat and pummels K.O.s into unconsciousness. The ref pulls Tommy off of Mad Dog's unconscious body, and Tommy immediately exits the arena to the cheers of the Marines. Brendan's third fight is the most lopsided so far. Brendan's opponent is the undefeated Russian Koba. Brendan and Frank enter the arena and Frank gestures to the front row Tess has come to watch Brendan fight Koba. In Philadelphia, Brendan's students have rented a drivein theater so students can watch the fights. Principal Zito arrives to watch, too. The fight begins, and Koba proves to be Brendan's toughest opponent thus far. Koba bloodies Brendan's face and nearly forces Koba to tap out during the first two rounds. Tess and Frank watch in horror as Brendan's dreams seemingly slip away. Brendan rallies Brendan's strength and attempts numerous times to put Koba in a hold. Brendan finally succeeds and Koba, unable to escape, taps out. The arena is shocked. Brendan and Tess kiss, and all celebrate the defeat of the undefeated. On the day of the fourth fight, news comes of Tommy's true identity. Tommy never enlisted in the Marine Corps as Tommy Riordon, but rather as Tommy Conlon. The Marine Corps sees that Tommy Conlon deserted in Iraq and will place Conlon under military arrest after the tournament. The greatest shock to those watching is that the final two fighters in Sparta are brothers. Brendan enters the arena first to Ode to Joy, followed shortly by Tommy, with no sight of Paddy. Before the fight begins, Brendan asks Tommy where Paddy is, but gets no reply. The fight begins, and a ragefilled Tommy pummels Brendan. The first round comes to an end with a late punch by Tommy and a bloodied Brendan. Frank reminds Brendan to maintain composure. The second round mirrors the first. Tommy unleashes punishing blows while Brendan does Brendan's best to try and trap Tommy in a hold. The second round comes to an end. The third round begins, and despite multiple severe blows, Brendan manages to put Tommy in a hold, with Conlon's left arm trapped beneath Brendan's knee. Tommy elbows Brendan in the face multiple times, and seconds before the round ends, Conlon overextends Conlon's left arm, exerting an audible CRACK. Conlon's tendon snaps and Brendan hears face. Brendan tells Frank to stop the fight, as Tommy's left arm is basically broken. Frank ignores the pleas and tells Brendan to finish Brendan off in the fourth round. The fourth round begins. Tommy attempts to conceal Conlon's dangling left arm as Conlon takes poorly aimed jabs with Conlon's right. Brendan backs away and asks why Tommy wants to continue to fight. While Brendan attempts to convince Tommy to stop numerous times, Brendan realizes that Tommy won't quit. Brendan spins around and latches Tommy into a painful hold. While Tommy is still held down by Brendan, and their father helplessly watches, Brendan tells Conlon, I love you I love you, Tommy We then see Tommy tap out on Brendan's shoulder. Brendan is victorious, but Brendan is more concerned for Tommy's welfare. Brendan wraps Brendan's arms around Brendan's brother as Brendan lays huddled on the mat. Brendan shoos the cameras and people away and the two walk into the tunnel. Paddy looks on from the stands and tears dampen Paddy's cheeks. The final image we're left with is the two brothers walking down the tunnel, Tommy slouched over, Brendan's right arm around Tommy's shoulders and Conlon's left arm holding Tommy's broken arm, with Tommy's right hand on top of Brendan's hand.