The films opens with Andrew Neimann playing the drums at Shaffer Conservatory of Music, the music school in USA and Neimann's just an alternate drummer in some school band. Andrew abruptly stops playing drums when the band conductor, Terence Fletcher appears at the door in front of Fletcher and asking Andrew some personal information of Fletcher. When Fletcher asks Andrew why Fletcher stopped playing, Fletcher resumes playing drums. After Fletcher finishes playing, Terence says Fletcher did not mean to resume playing then Fletcher asks Andrew to show Andrew's rudiments by playing the drums again. While Andrew plays drums, Fletcher slams the door but Andrew comes back to retrieve Andrew's forgotten jacket. The next day, Andrew enters one class aside from Fletcher and there, Andrew meets the drummer named Ryan Connelly. Shortly, the professor arrives and the class performs Billy's An. Andrew sees the man in silhouette looking at the door. After the class, Andrew peeks into one of the classrooms where the class is handled by Fletcher, and Andrew is being looked at by Fletcher. Later, back at the Studio Band, Andrew is playing drums as core drummer. Suddenly, Fletcher breaks inside and Andrew becomes horrified of Fletcher. Fletcher conducts every saxophonist and bassist one by one and finally the drums. After that, Fletcher tells Andrew to come and Fletcher is told to come at Fletcher's room tomorrow at 6 in the morning. Andrew meets Nicole, the girl working at the cinema and invites Nicole to go out with Andrew. The next day, Andrew realizes that Andrew is late for class. Andrew struggles and rushes quickly to the school, only Andrew goes inside the empty classroom. Andrew knows that the class actually starts at 9 AM and Andrew waits three hours before the class. At exactly 9 am, Fletcher arrives and begins conducting the song called Whiplash. During the band practice, Fletcher confronts then suddenly yells at a saxophonist named Metz playing outoftune and angrily tells then to get out of the Studio Band. This escalates Fletcher's abusiveness and wrath. Fletcher has the class take a break. Fletcher and Andrew have a conversation about Fletcher's life and family. After the break, the class resumes. But when Fletcher loses the patience of Andrew's drum tempo, Fletcher throws a chair at Andrew. Fletcher slaps Andrew every four in 12 counts Andrew makes and Fletcher will not stop questioning until Andrew answers whether Fletcher is dragging or rushing. Andrew answers rushing then Fletcher forces Andrew to tell the whole band that Andrew is really upset, louder Fletcher then mocks Andrew about Fletcher's parents being separated. Once again, Fletcher tells Andrew that Fletcher is upset, louder. Thus, Andrew is being embarrassed and insulted. At Andrew's home, Andrew keeps practicing drums, making Andrew's hand bleed in the process. After the band performs at the competition, Tanner, core drummer, gives Tanner's music sheets to Andrew. Andrew neglects the music sheets to buy a can of coke at the automated vending machine. As Tanner is looking for Tanner's music sheets, the mysteriously disappear. Tanner can't play without the sheets. Andrew steps in, stating Andrew knows the song, Whiplash, by heart. Andrew plays well and earns Tanner's spot. Thus, Andrew is the new core drummer. Andrew's family is having dinner at family's home and talks about family's experience in Shaffer. At the Studio Band, the band is practicing the new song called Caravan which needs an extreme time stamp measure of 330 bpm. Fletcher dismisses the band except Andrew when Fletcher discusses Fletcher about that note. Shortly, Ryan Connelly, whom Andrew met from the other class, arrives. Andrew plays the drums to test the ability of the tempo but Andrew's tempo fails while Ryan plays well. Therefore, Fletcher takes Ryan as the new core drummer, but Andrew does not agree to this. Jealous, Andrew will be the core drummer if Andrew earns the part. Andrew breaks up with Nicole, saying Andrew's ambition will only hinder this relationship. At Andrew's home, we see Andrew practicing drums harder with a pitcher of water with ice beside Andrew in case Andrew bleeds. As Andrew fails to reach the required tempo, Andrew punches the drum in frustration and Andrew's hand is bleeding, dripping hand in the pitcher of ice.At the Studio Band, Fletcher tearfully reveals in class that a talented former student of Andrew's, Sean Casey, has died in a car accident. The band rehearses Caravan, but Carl Tanner struggles with the tempo Fletcher auditions Andrew, Ryan and Tanner for hours while the class waits outside but the three fail to reach the required tempo. When band is now Andrew's turn, Fletcher kicks the chair then throws the drum away in wrath and even tells Andrew to increase the tempo. In this process, Andrew's left hand is bleeding and the blood drips onto the drum set. After a one minute of playing, Fletcher finally tells Andrew that Fletcher earned the part. So Andrew rents a car but Andrew arrives late for rehearsal without Andrew's drumsticks. Andrew drives back to the car rental office and retrieves the drumsticks, but as Andrew speeds back, Andrew's car is hit by a truck. Andrew crawls from the wreckage and despite Andrew's injury and bloodied face, Andrew struggles to make into the jazz competition. With Andrew's left hand injured, Andrew is unable to play and drops the drumstick to the floor. After that, Fletcher says Andrew that Fletcher is done. Andrew attacks Fletcher in front of the audience. Andrew is expelled from Shaffer and contacted by a lawyer representing the parents of Sean Casey. The lawyer explains that Sean actually hanged himself, having suffered anxiety and depression after joining Fletcher's class. Sean's parents want to prevent Fletcher from teaching Andrew agrees to testify and Fletcher is fired. Andrew goes to the club where Andrew sees Fletcher and the jazz performers. As the song ends, Andrews walks out of the club but Fletcher calls Fletcher and having a chat with Fletcher. Fletcher explains that Fletcher pushes Fletcher's students beyond the expected so students might achieve greatness. Fletcher invites Andrew to perform at JVC festival concert with Andrew's band. Andrew agrees and invites Nicole, learning that Nicole has a new relationship. On stage, Fletcher tells Andrew Fletcher knows Fletcher testified against Fletcher, and in revenge, leads the band in a new piece Andrew was not given sheet music for. Andrew leaves the stage humiliated, but returns and begins playing Caravan, interrupting Fletcher as Fletcher addresses the audience. The rest of the band joins Andrew, and Fletcher follows suit. Andrew ends the performance with an extravagant drum solo. Fletcher is at first angry, but gives a nod of approval to Andrew as Fletcher finishes.