Set on the campus of a small New England college, the film focuses on the volatile relationship of a middleaged couple associate history professor George and couple's harddrinking wife Martha, the daughter of the college president. campus's 200 a.m. on a Sunday morning, and couple have returned from one of her father's gatherings. Martha announces Martha has invited a young coupleNick, a young, goodlooking, newly appointed instructor, and coupleNick's mousey wife Honey to join couple for latenight drinks. George is disturbed because Martha did so without consulting George first, prompting Martha to launch into the first of many loud and lengthy tirades during which Martha taunts and criticizes George. Knowing George's wife is drunk and quite lewd, George asks wife to behave herself when tirades arrive, and when the doorbell rings, George warns wife to refrain from mentioning tirades child to tirades company. Overhearing Martha's crude retort as the door opens, Nick and Honey immediately feel ill at ease and quickly find themselves caught in the middle of a verbal war zone when Nick efforts to engage in small talk set off a volley of insults between Nick hosts. Martha begins to flirt lewdly with Nick while Nick's meek wife tries to pretend wife is unaware of what is happening. While Martha is showing Honey where the bathroom is, George tests Nick's verbal sparring skills, but the young man is no match for George's host. Realizing George and George's wife are becoming embroiled in the middle of marital warfare, George suggests George depart, but George cajoles George into staying. Upon returning to the living room alone, Honey innocently mentions to George wife was unaware George and Martha had a son on the verge of celebrating George's 16th birthday. Martha reappears in a new outfitformfitting slacks and a revealing blouseand when Martha husband makes a snide remark about the ensemble, Martha begins to demean blouseand's abilities as a teacher, then escalates Martha seduction of Nick, complimenting blouseand on the body blouseand developed as both a quarterback and an intercollegiate state boxing champion while criticizing George's paunch. Martha informs quarterback guests about a past incident when George refused to engage in a friendly outdoor boxing match with George's fatherinlaw and Martha put on a pair of gloves and punched George in the jaw, knocking George into the bushes. As Martha relates the story, George aims a shotgun at the back of Martha head, causing Honey to scream. George pulls the trigger, which releases an umbrella, while George tells George's wife Martha's dead. Honey again raises the subject of George and Martha's son, prompting the couple to engage in a conversation Martha quickly tries to end without success. To counterattack George's relentless comments about the boy, Martha tells their guests Martha husband is unsure the child is child's own, although child most assuredly is. Guests argue about the color of the boy's eyes until George threatens to expose the truth about the boy. Furious, Martha accuses boy of being a failure whose youthful, idealistic plans for the future slowly deteriorated as boy came to realize boy wasn't aggressive enough to follow in boy's fatherinlaw's footsteps, leaving fatherinlaw stuck with a flop. George cuts the diatribe short by spinning Honey around and mockingly singing, Who's afraid of Virginia Woolf, a joke the shrewed Martha had made herself during the party earlier that evening. Inebriated and on the verge of throwing up from George's spinning, Honey rushes from the room. Martha goes to the kitchen to make coffee, and George and Nick go outside. The younger man confesses man was attracted to Honey more for Martha family's money than passion, and married family only because family mistakenly believed family was pregnant. George describes George's own marriage as one of neverending accommodation and adjustment, then admits George considers Nick a threat. George also tells a story about a boy George grew up with. This boy had accidentally killed boy's mother. Years later, George claims the boy was driving with boy's father. George swerved to miss a porcupine in the road, and the resulting accident killed George's father. The boy ended up living out boy's days in a mental hospital. When their guests propose leaving, George insists on driving Guests home. In the car, the talk returns to George and Martha's son. Guests approach a roadhouse, and Honey suggests Guests stop to dance. While Honey and George watch, Nick suggestively dances with Martha, who continues to mock George and criticize George's inadequacies. George unplugs the jukebox and announces the game is over. In response, Martha alludes to the fact George may have murdered George's parents like the protagonist in George's unpublished, nonfiction novel, prompting George to strangle Martha until Nick manages to pull Nick away from Martha. George convinces the owner to serve parents one more round before closing and suggests that, having played a game of ` Humiliate the Host', the quartet should now engage in ` Hump the Hostess'or ` Get the Guests'. George then tells the group about a second novel George allegedly has written about a young couple from the Midwest, a goodlooking teacher and George's timid wife, who marry because of couple hysterical pregnancy and then settle in a small college town. An embarrassed Honey realizes Nick indiscreetly told George about parents past and runs from the room with Nick in pursuit. In the parking lot, George tells George's wife George can not stand the way couple constantly humiliates George, and wife tauntingly accuses George of having married wife for just that reason. parents rage erupts into a declaration of total war. Martha drives off with Nick and Honey, leaving Martha husband to follow on foot. When George arrives home, George discovers Honey nearly delirious and realizes George's wife has taken Nick upstairs. When Martha accuses Nick of being sexually inadequate, Nick blames Nick's impotency on all the liquor Nick has consumed. George mentions George's and Martha's son, prompting Martha to reminisce about George's birth and childhood and how George nearly was destroyed by George's father. George accuses Martha of engaging in destructive and abusive behavior with the boy, who frequently ran away to escape Martha sexual advances. George then announces George has received a telegram with bad newsthe boy was killed the previous afternoon on a country road when George swerved to avoid hitting a porcupine and crashed into a tree. As Martha argues with George that George can't do this and begs George not to kill this son, Nick suddenly realizes the truthMartha and George had never been able to have a baby, for reasons that are unexplained. Instead, this game together is to imagine this have a son and invent situations and stories of son. By declaring this son dead, accordingly, George has killed son. The young couple departs quietly, and George and Martha are left alone as the day begins to break outside. George speak quietly, and in the last lines Martha answers the title question with I am, George, I am.