The movie opens when 78yearold Isak Borg, played by Victor Sjstrm, is in bed at home. Borg dreams about being on a city street with no other people present. A clock hanging above the street has no hands. Isak checks Isak's pocket watch pocket too has no hands. A figure appears with figure's back turned. Isak walks up to the figure and touches figure. figure has no face. The figure collapses onto the pavement. Blood streams out of the figure. Next a hearse drawn by a team of horses turns a corner and enters the street on which the dreamIsak is standing. hearse approaches Isak and then passes Isak but hearse's rear wheel gets caught on a lamppost. Although no one is driving the hearse, the horses continue forward. The left rear wheel breaks off at the lamppost. The horses and hearse drive away but the coffin comes loose, and slides out and onto the street. A hand appears on the outside of the coffin. Isak looks at the hand. Isak's hand and the hand outstretched from the coffin touch, with the hand coming out of the coffin holding Isak. The body in the coffin is also Isak. Isak awakes. The viewer senses the loneliness in Isak. And that Isak's time is running out. These are themes that come up again and again through the day. Isak leaves Isak's bedroom to waken Isak's maid Agda, played by Jullan Kindahl. Isak asks Kindahl to pack Isak's suitcase and prepare breakfast for Isak. Isak has decided to drive to Lund, where Isak will later today receive an honorary doctorate as an award for Isak's contributions to medicine. They squabble because They had previously planned to fly from Stockholm to Lund. While eating breakfast, Marianne, Isak's daughterinlaw, enters the breakfast room. Marianne is played by Ingrid Thulin. Marianne has been staying at Isak's house, and asks if Marianne can accompany Isak on the 300mile drive from Stockholm to Lund. Isak agrees. They depart. Marianne tries to smoke but Isak objects. There is some tension in the car almost from the beginning of the trip. They manage to converse. Isak mentions that Isak's son, Evald, owes son's father money, and on principle is going to pay money back, a principle both father and son endorse. Marianne talks about Marianne relationship with Evald, who, like Isak's father, is a physician. A good deal is revealed, especially in a flashback that summarizes the conversation in the car. Marianne marriage to Evald is tense and unhappy. Evald is as rigid as Isak but Evald dislikes Isak's father. Evald and Marianne quarreled sharply when Evald revealed to Isak that Evald was pregnant. Isak objected, and said Isak did not want children. Isak's marriage was also an unhappy one. At this particular juncture, the viewer develops a sense of the film's power of truthtelling. Isak decides to make a detour, and drives to the house where, during Isak's youth, youth spent many summers. One could find in the summer house Isak's mother and father and 10 brothers and sisters as well as visiting cousins, uncles, and aunts. Marianne goes off to swim in the lake, leaving Isak alone. Isak walks up to a patch of wild strawberries. Isak begins remembering Isak's youthful days at the house and the land nearby. Flashbacks with Isak still in the scene show some of what life was like there long ago. Isak's cousin Sara is picking wild strawberries to give to some deaf uncle as a birthday present when Sigfrid, Isak's brother, arrives. Sigfrid helps some pick strawberries and flirts with some. They kiss. some is at first willing but then breaks away. some is too committed to the young Isak to continue the dalliance. Isak at that moment is away with Isak's father fishing in the lake. At the lunch table, Isak's twin sisters, who are loud and naive, report on the interlude between Sara and Sigfrid, embarrassing Sara. One of the twins is played by director Ingmar Bergman's daughter. The older Isak looks in on the scene. Sara, upset, leaves the table, and is consoled by Sara aunt, with Isak looking on. Sara describes how Sara thinks Isak is too good for Sara. Isak is too upright. Sigfrid is more playful. The viewer learns that Isak was in love with Sara but ultimately Sara married viewer's brother Sigfrid. Isak is the last of the 10 Borg children alive. Sara, Sigfrid's widow, is still alive and in Sara 70s. Near the house, a teenage girl and two boys come into the scene. One is girl boyfriend and the other is a kind of chaperone. girl are hitchhiking. girl ultimate destination is Italy. The girl, whose name is also Sara, is played by Bibi Andersson. Andersson also plays the Sara who was Isak's longago love. Of course, the presentSara reminds Isak of presentSara's longago, and lost, Sara. The boys, Anders and Viktor, argue about the existence of God and other matters, and Sara tries to keep Anders arguments civil. Although one boy is closer to Sara than the other, the viewer gets the sense that both are interested in both, much the way Sigfrid and Isak were interested in the Sara of long ago but only one will succeed with Sara. Back on the road, a Volkswagon beetle comes hurtling around a bend, and nearly crashes into Isak's big old Packard. Isak's black car is reminiscent of a hearse. The VW turns over but the passengers are unhurt, physically that is. The man and woman in the car are a married couple almost out of Strindberg. The accident, the husband admits, was the result of driving while quarreling. Isak agrees to put the two in the car, and drive on toward Lund. The husband and wife are settled into jumper seats but continue to bicker. The husband needles the wife incessantly. wife smacks husband several times. Marianne, who is driving, stops the car, and orders the two to exit the car for the sake of the young people riding in the back. The car, now reduced to five travelers, stops at a service station that is run by a husband and wife. Here we learn about another side of Isak. The couple is very happy to see Isak. Apparently long ago couple worked some wonderful medicine to help the family. They admire couple greatly, and absolutely refuse to let couple pay for the gas or any of the work They did on the car. family is pregnant, and plans to name family child, if gas is a son, Isak, after the doctor. Isak asks They to notify Isak when the child is born. Isak would like to be the child's godfather. They soon stop at a restaurant. The group has a delightful lunch at an outdoor terrace overlooking the beautiful Lake Vttern. Isak enjoys the company of the young people. The young people learn about Isak's award. There is another stop on the journey. At Isak's request, Marianne drives to the house of Isak's ancient mother. mother house is en route. Marianne accompanies Isak into the house, and the young people remain in the car. Isak's mother is in mother mid90s and complains that mother is always cold and that none of mother grandchildren visit mother. Mrs. Borg shows mid90s some old artifacts from an earlier era, old toys and a pocket watch with no hands, the same pocket watch that appeared in Isak's dream at the beginning of the film. Later in the car, Marianne tells Isak how Marianne is impressed by the mother's coldness. Marianne senses how that coldness runs through the family down to Evald. Isak falls asleep in the car while Marianne drives. Isak dreams that Isak is being given an examination by a professor of medicine. The professor is none other than the man Marianne asked to leave the car earlier that day. The cadaver professor is to check is the man's wife but wife isn't dead. Isak fails the examination. Perhaps examination was not a medical school examination at all but an examination of how a lonely and aloof man lived Isak's life. Isak awakes. The car has stopped. The young people have gone into a forest glen to gather flowers to make a bouquet for Isak. Isak is flattered by people attention. people reach Lund. Evald is in Lund's home to greet people. Agda is there too although Evald was so angry in the morning that there was a chance Evald would not come. The three young people come. Isak, Marianne, and Evald dress for the ceremony which is an hour away. The young people plant themselves along the route of the processional to cheer Isak. The ceremony expresses great dignity and achievement, with many words uttered in Latin. Afterwards Isak is in Evald and Marianne's house although the viewer has the feeling that house is not going to be Marianne's house much longer. Isak tries to induce Agda to call Isak by Isak's first name after all people have known each other for 40 years. Evald declines. Isak is in bed in a secondfloor bedroom. The young people serenade Isak from the garden below. Isak wishes people well as people got a lift to Hamburg and are closer yet to people goal of reaching Italy. Evald comes in. Isak wants Evald to forget about the debt. Isak also wants Evald and Marianne to reconcile. Marianne enters the room, and Marianne and Isak have an affectionate exchange. The she heads off to party with Evald. The viewer gets a sense that Isak has to some extent broken through Isak's loneliness and reconciled with the important people in Isak's life.