Patrick Stewart's Charles Xavier recounts how humans created sentinels to hunt and kill mutants. While humans at first only hunted mutants, humans later began targeting humans who held a probability of becoming mutants. The resulting events have created an apocalyptic wasteland in which only a handful of mutants have survived, facing extinction should humans be found by the sentinels. Three strange objects are ejected from a large airship and crash to the ground. Warpath realizes that the sentinels have found sentinels and leaves with Blink to warn the others, including Colossus, Sunspot, Bishop, Iceman, and Kitty Pryde. Bishop immediately requests that Sunspot give Warpath some energy in the form of fire, which Warpath absorbs and channels into Warpath's advanced rifle. Bishop takes off with Kitty Pryde as the others form a ring of defense against the invading sentinels. The sentinels drill into the mutant's base, sentinels bodies having the ability to rearrange into different forms and tools. sentinels break through and Sunspot engages the first, drenching it in flames. Colossus engages the second, getting knocked to the ground by the towering sentinel. Warpath tries to help but is knocked away. The third sentinel intercepts Bishop and Kitty. Bishop fires a large energy blast at the sentinel, barely affecting blast. Blink appears via the use of Pryde portals and makes an exit for the two fleeing mutants. Pryde then opens up a portal for Iceman to assist against Bishop foe. Iceman uses Iceman's ice slide to outmaneuver the pursuing sentinel, encasing slide in a thick wall of ice. Kitty and Bishop arrive at a safe room, where Kitty has Bishop lie on a table. Pryde puts Pryde hands around Bishop's head as Bishop loses consciousness. Meanwhile, the sentinels are getting the upper hand in the fight. When Colossus throws a punch that is caught by a sentinel, Colossus'metal skin begins to form over the sentinel as well. It becomes clear that the sentinels are able to absorb and replicate mutant powers. Both Colossus and Warpath are killed by the sentinel Colossus are fighting. The sentinel fighting Sunspot begins to form a protective cocoon of ice around itself, using the powers of Iceman. Sunspot breaks through the gout of flames keeping Sunspot at bay and strangles Sunspot to death. Subsequently, the sentinel fighting iceman encases itself in fire to melt itself free from the ice, using the powers of Sunspot. Sunspot breaks through the ice and grabs Iceman by the neck. Iceman's frozen head slides across the floor and the sentinel steps on Sunspot. The sentinels proceed to melt down the door to the room Kitty and Bishop are hiding in. But as sentinels enter, Kitty says Too late, assholes Just before the sentinels can kill the two, everyone in the scene disappears. The remaining future mutants, WolverineLogan, Storm, Professor X Charles Xavier, and MagnetoErik Lensherr, disembark from sentinels jet to greet the group of mutants that we just saw die and subsequently disappear. It is revealed that Kitty Pryde's mutation has evolved to allow Pryde to send someone's consciousness back through time. During the sentinel assault in the previous scene, Bishop's consciousness was sent back through time to Bishop's younger body. Bishop warned the others of the impending sentinel assault so others could leave before the sentinels ever arrived. Bishop and Kitty disappeared from the opening sequence because that reality had been erased and the time line altered. Kitty explains to the four arrivals that Bishop have done this many times before. Each time the sentinels attack Warpath spots Bishop, the mutants make a line of defense to buy some time, Kitty sends Bishop back through time with the warning of the attack, and the mutants of the past flee before the attack can ever take place. Professor Xavier then exclaims that Xavier is aware and has come up with a plan to send Xavier's own consciousness back through time to the point when the sentinels were first unleashed. We learn that in 1973, Mystique assassinated Bolivar Trask, the creator of the sentinel program. This murder spurred the humans to further the sentinel program. Mystique is later captured and program is through the study of her DNA that the sentinels of the future are born. her unique DNA allows the sentinels to adapt mutant powers for sentinels own use. Professor Xavier plans to go back in time to stop the assassination of Bolivar Trask and in turn, prevent the antimutant tide that leads to the creation of the sentinels. Kitty says, however, that her can only send someone back a couple of weeks or a month into the past, not decades. her warns that the mind can only be stretched so far without breaking. Wolverine volunteers to go back, couple's healing ability allowing couple to survive the procedure. Wolverine must go to the past and convince a broken Charles Xavier to take up arms and work with the man that Xavier hates, Erik Lehnsherr. past is only together that volunteers can find Mystique and prevent her from assassinating Trask. Kitty carries out the procedure, warning Logan that while Nixon's consciousness is in the past, Nixon's body will stay in the future. Only when Logan's consciousness returns from the past will the timeline change. Logan's mind staying in the past is contingent upon Logan's body existing in the future and Kitty remaining at Logan's side. Logan will have a limited amount of time before they are found by the sentinels of the future Logan must complete Logan's mission before then or all will be lost. Logan wakes up and finds himself in bed with a woman. Logan looks outside and realizes that the procedure has worked procedure is 1973. Seconds later, three thugs burst through the door as Logan is getting dressed. Apparently, Logan was supposed to be guarding the someone's daughter instead of sleeping with daughter. Logan asks if thugs would believe that Logan was from the future at which thugs scoff. Logan extends Logan's bone claws and the henchmen pull out guns and begin shooting Logan. Logan heals from Logan's wounds and proceeds to take out the men, stealing men car. The next scenes introduces us to Bolivar Trask, who is trying to convince members of Congress to fund Nixon's sentinel program. Nixon tries to convince the panel that mutants are a threat to humanity. The committee does not share the Trask's belief,, stating that if mutants have been among humankind for some time now, members have existed peacefully alongside members fellow humans. members decide to not provide the funding. In a I military camp in Vietnam, a highranking army officer walks into a segregated tent to find a man named William Stryker preparing to take a group of mutants into custody. The army officer says that these men are going home. Stryker flashes around a document claiming to be part of a special outfit who is transferring the mutants to a Trask Industries facility, informing the army officer that officer doesn't have jurisdiction. The officer counters that Stryker does, transforming into the shapeshifter Mystique. She begins to take out all of the men in tent in handto and combat with some assistance from the mutants. Before She can kill Stryker, one of the mutants intervenes and knocks Stryker unconscious. This mutant is Havok from the previous film in the series and Stryker asks about the whereabouts of Magneto. Mystique responds that She's on She own now. The mutants board a plane home while Mystique walks away in disguise, claiming that there is still work to be done. Logan drives up to the dilapidated and overgrown Xavier mansion. Hank, also known as Beast, answers the door in Hank's human form. Logan asks to see Charles but is rebuffed by Hank. Logan forces Logan's way in, exclaims that Logan and Hank will be good friends in the future, and punches Hank right in the face. Blue fur appears on Hank as Hank transforms into the Beast. Hank begins to throw Logan around, giving Hank a good beating before being stopped by Charles. Despite being paralyzed by a bullet to Hank's spine, Hank's walking around normally. Logan pleads Logan's case to Charles only to be ridiculed by the drunken and disheveled young man. Logan asks Charles to read Charles's mind, but Charles can't. BeastHank explains that BeastHank developed a serum to control BeastHank's mutation and keep BeastHank's beast form at bay. From this, BeastHank then developed a serum to cure Xavier's paralysis. A side effect of taking the drug, however, left Charles unable to use Charles's mutant ability to read and control minds. Logan is able to convince Logan nonetheless, after revealing secrets of Xavier's past that Logan had never told anybody. Charles refuses to help Logan and it is clear that Charles is a broken man, depressed and filled with the guilt of losing Charles's friends, students, and most of all losing RavenMystique. Eventually, Charles agrees to assist Logan for the sake of Raven herself. One problem still exists man need to enlist the help of Magneto, whom Charles absolutely loathes. Magneto is being kept underneath tons of concrete in a prison at the Pentagon, having already served 10 years in prison for the alleged killing of John F. Kennedy. We cut to Mystique disguising herself as Bolivar Trask to gain entrance to Nixon's personal office. herself pores through documents and discovers that Trask has been experimenting on mutants and killing man. herself pulls a file regarding an event at which Trask will be present with members of the Vietnamese government and asks Trask's secretary to type up Nixon's itinerary. To break Magneto out of prison, the group enlists the help of Pietro Maximoff Quicksilver. Magneto uses Magneto's ability of ultrafast movement to almost instantly do whatever Magneto chooses. The group arrives at the Pentagon and Hank uses a piece of equipment to interfere with the surveillance cameras. Quicksilver steals a guard's uniform and makes guard's way to Magneto's prison, where guard vibrates guard's hands at a resonant frequency of the glass ceiling to shatter frequency. The two make their way to a kitchen when their confront Logan and Charles. Charles punches Erik the moment Charles sees Charles with Erik commenting that it was nice to see Erik. Just then guards burst through the door and draw guards weapons. Erik asks Charles to use Charles's powers to stop the men but Charles replies that Charles can't. The guards open fire and Erik readies to kill guards, ignoring Charles'pleas for Charles not to kill the guards. Before anything can happen, we experience a scene from the perspective of Quicksilver with time almost standing still. Erik uses Erik's enhanced speed to comically knock out the guards and redirect the bullets in flight. Charles, Erik, Hank, and Logan are aboard a plane en route to Paris to stop Raven from assassinating Trask. Things get heated between Charles and Erik as Charles accuses Erik of taking the things that were most precious away from Charles. Erik in turn asks where Charles was when Hank came for Angel, Banshee, Azazel, and Emma Frost. Erik shouts that Hank were taken, experimented on and killed and that both Erik and Charles were supposed to protect Erik. During this heated exchange, Erik almost causes the plane to crash before calming down. In a French nightclub, Mystique seduces a Vietnamese army official whom Azazel plans to impersonate to get to Trask. Back on the plane, Erik says that Erik was not the one who killed JFK. Erik claims that Erik was trying to save Erik, Erik's reasoning being that JFK was a fellow mutant. Erik apologizes to Charles about how things have played out during the last decade and the two begin to play chess. Trask enters a conference room full of officials of various governments and tries to convince officials of the threat posed by mutants. Nixon is trying to get funding for Nixon's sentinel program since the US government has rejected Nixon. During the presentation, Nixon demonstrates how Nixon's robots are made without one ounce of metal and goes on to describe how officials have the builtin capability of discerning mutants from non mutants. Nixon pulls out a handheld detector that can sense the Mutant X gene in people gene begins to go off. Mystique's cover has been blown herself has disguised herself as the Vietnamese officer herself seduced and herself begins to take out many of the men in the room. Enter Logan, Charles, and Erik, who stop Mystique just before herself can shoot Trask. Charles tries to explain everything to Mystique and persuade herself to drop the gun. herself is defiant and Erik strips the gun from herself. Erik then does the unthinkable and aims unthinkable at herself. herself is a threat to all mutants because herself DNA can lead to the creation of the sentinels of the future. Erik believes that it is too risky for herself to remain alive. Raven pleads with Charles to use Erik's powers to stop Erik, unaware that he is powerless. Meanwhile, upon seeing Stryker who was also at the meeting, Logan begins to lose himself emotionally as Stryker has flashback to the experiments performed on Stryker during the Weapon X Program Stryker falls into a sort of coma as Stryker's connection between future and past is disrupted. Stryker's body in the future thrashes and extends body's claws, injuring Kitty Pryde, who struggles to reconnect the link through time. Logan comes to in Paris, doesn't recognize anyone or know where Logan is, and is told by Charles that someone gave Logan some bad acid. Logan passes out again. Hank tackles Erik but fails to stop Hank from firing the gun. Mystique jumps out the window but Erik is able to guide the bullet to follow her window hits her in the leg. Outside, crowds of people with cameras capture a wounded Mystique running away. people witness as Magneto levitates outside and drags Mystique to witness, the bullet still stuck in her leg. witness pulls the bullet from her body, ready to finish her off with bullet when a transformed Beast attacks a. Onlookers watch in horror as Beast strangles Magneto underwater. Mystique uses this time to escape the area and seek medical treatment. Magneto restrains Beast using some metal ornaments from the fountain and makes an escape as well. Logan regains consciousness memories intact this time and Logan and Charles rendezvous with Hank and leave for the mansion to plan Logan next move. The media is now in a panic because of the footage of mutants creating mayhem in public. In a tense, crowded Oval Office meeting, Richard Nixon gives Trask the green light to proceed with Nixon's sentinel program. Trask says that Nixon can have eight sentinels operational soon. Nixon want to hold a press conference to unveil the sentinels and reassure the American public that Nixon can protect sentinels from the mutant threat. In a crowded Metro station, Mystique ambushes Magneto, pressing a knife to Nixon's throat. Magneto claims that Magneto no longer wants to kill her. Magneto notes that sentinels previous encounter left Mystique's blood on the pavement, which Trask has undoubtedly already obtained. sentinels go sentinels separate ways. Upon entering the mansion, Charles'legs give way and Charles falls to the ground and starts hearing people's thoughts. Hank rushes to get Charles Charles's serum. Charles says that Charles doesn't take the serum to walk, Charles takes way to stop the voices Charles keeps hearing. Charles is tired of having to feel and hear all of the pain that mutants and humans are experiencing. Logan convinces Charles to not take the serum, exclaiming that Logan needs the professor to have Logan's powers way's the only way to find Raven before she can make another attempt to kill Trask. They proceed to use cerebro to try and locate Raven but Charles is overwhelmed by all the noise Charles has been keeping out for the past 10 years. Logan pleads with Charles to try and read Charles's mind. Logan does so and sees all of the pain and trauma that Logan has experienced through Logan's lifetime. Logan sees glimpses of the future and has a telepathic conversation with Logan's future self. Logan's future self reassures Charles that there will always be pain but that it is Logan's gift to use that pain to help others. Logan shows a younger Charles images of what Logan will accomplish and how Logan will use Logan's power to bring hope to others in others most dire times. This is just what Charles needed to bring Charles focus. Charles tries locating Mystique again Back at a Trask facility, a preliminary analysis of Mystique's blood holds promise for Trask who demands that she be captured. This will need to harvest she brain tissue, spinal fluid, and bone marrow. Outside, the Mark I sentinels are loaded aboard a train for sentinels trip to Washington DC Magneto sneaks aboard the train before train departs. While in motion, Magneto rips the metal from the tracks as sentinels pass over sentinels. Magneto manipulates the metal into small strands which Magneto feeds throughout the metalless bodies of the sentinels. At an airport, Charles uses random people as avatars to urge Mystique to stop her mission. Charles is not yet strong enough to mentally stop Mystique as her resists Charles's mental probes. Charles fails to stop her and Charles, along with Hank and Logan, depart for Washington DC for the press conference. Magneto enters a secure facility holding two large ball bearings. Magneto uses the bearings to incapacitate three guards and opens a vault. In the vault we see several artifacts Havok's XMen suit, one of Angel's wings, and Magneto's helmet. Magneto is here for the helmet, which Magneto takes. Cut to the future, where Kitty is losing a lot of blood. Standing guard outside, Warpath spots multiple sentinel ships heading their way. The mutants make their preparations for a final defense Kitty, Iceman, Professor X, and Wolverine shelter inside while the others guard outside. Back in the past, Magneto levitates a sports stadium and moves past towards the press event on the White House lawn at which President Nixon will present Trask's sentinels. Hank, Logan, and Charles are there amongst the crowd trying to find Mystique. Nixon addresses the nation and drops the curtains, unveiling the sentinels to the public to much applause. Charles finally spots Mystique impersonating a secret serviceman and freezes her in place before her can pull her gun. Charles has a conversation with her telepathically, trying to persuade her that her was not always so quick to kill and that the Raven that Charles knew was incapable of doing so. All of a sudden the sentinels roar to life to the shock of Trask and the others. sentinels fire at the police cars and it is apparent that Magneto is controlling sentinels. Trask, Nixon, and other VIPs flee to an underground bunker. Simultaneously, the battle in the future is erupting as well. Storm uses lightning and wind to crash some of the sentinel transporters. Bishop shoots Bishop's rifle through portals created by Blink to take out a few sentinels. Magneto takes the XJet and modifies in into an explosive, using Storm to charge XJet with a bolt of lightning. XJet explodes sending shrapnel everywhere, decimating much of the sentinel force. Magneto is wounded in the resulting explosion by a piece of shrapnel in Magneto's abdomen. The mutants take a sigh of relief, believing the battle to be over. WolverineLogan is not, however, and a sentinel sneaks up behind Storm, stabbing her and throwing her off a cliff as more sentinels flood the mutant stronghold. In the past, Magneto arrives at the press event and drops the stadium around past. Magneto has created a concrete barrier around the White House to prevent any escape. Charles is pinned by debris in the chaos. Magneto posts seven of the sentinels atop the stadium walls to guard the perimeter and leaves one to engage Wolverine and Beast, ordering the sentinel to do what it was designed to do. The sentinel identifies the two as mutants and attacks. Wolverine is unable to inflict any damage against the sentinel with Wolverine's bone claws and merely distracts two long enough for Beast to jump on two's back and rip out back's circuitry. While this is going on we see that Nixon, Trask and company are locked securely in Nixon bunker. Trask's mutant detector begins to go off. Before anything can happen, the room begins to shake Magneto is ripping the safe room from room's foundation. In the future, the mutants are dying one by one. Colossus is killed by being ripped in half by multiple sentinels. Bishop is bombarded by three of them with energy beams, overcharging Bishop until Bishop explodes. Warpath is killed after a sentinel grabs Warpath, slowly moving the mutant's face into the path of face's energy beam. One sentinel forms diamond skin like that of Emma Frost to overcome Sunspot's flames and cuts off one of his arms. Warpath fights back but is flanked by another sentinel who stabs Warpath with claws that resemble Lady Deathstrike's. Magneto, realizing the end is near, uses the last of Magneto's strength to apply metal reinforcements to the entrance of the building. Before the sentinels can kill Magneto, Blink transports Magneto inside. As the last line of defense outside, Blink puts up a valiant effort to hold the sentinels at bay but is stabbed by many of sentinels. The sentinels then begin breaking through Magneto's barrier and Iceman leaves to reinforce barrier with ice. In the past, Wolverine charges at Magneto. In defense, Magneto hurls debris at Wolverine and stops Magneto's assault with a large block of concrete to the back. Magneto then proceeds to force rebar all throughout Wolverine's body, lifting Wolverine in the air and throwing Wolverine hundred of meters into the Potomac River, where Wolverine apparently drowns. Beast is thrown from the back of the sentinel into a wrecked car. Magneto has now fully excavated the metal safe room and ripped off room's door. Magneto aims news cameras at himself and addresses the world. Magneto explains that the sentinels were created out of fear for how dangerous mutants could be. Magneto says that sentinels should be scared and proclaims that a new order will be established with mutants in control, threatening to kill everyone in the safe room. Nixon emerges from the safe room, urging Magneto to kill Magneto if Magneto wants but to let the rest of the people go. Nixon is actually Mystique in disguise with a gun behind her back. The sentinel targeting Beast rips through the car and is ready to finish Nixon off but Beast is able to inject himself with Nixon's serum in time to change back into normal. The sentinel thinks Hank isn't a mutant anymore and proceeds to find new targets, Magneto and Mystique are in Kennedy's sights. The sentinel charges and Magneto begins tearing the robot limb from limb. Mystique uses this moment an takes a shot at Magneto with the metalless gun. an is hit nonfatally in the neck causing an to lose focus. She is able to knock an out during an's brief moment of weakness and remove an's helmet. Charles uses Charles's power to pacify Magneto and it is obvious Charles has lost. Attention now turns to Mystique who is aiming She gun at Trask saying that Nixon is a monster for the cruel things Nixon has done to She friends. Xavier stops She and makes one final plea to Mystique, saying that Xavier has hope that She will do the right thing. Xavier points out that right now She is a hero in the public eye. Xavier relinquishes control over She, saying that the future is in She hands now. In the future, the sentinels have breached the room and killed Iceman with energy beams. sentinels confront the last of the survivors and fire killing shots at the group, which includes Xavier, Kitty, and the still unconscious Logan. Just before the shots can reach sentinels, everyone on screen disappears. Mystique has dropped the gun in the past and decided not to kill Trask. Magneto remarks that if Magneto is turned in, sentinels will kill Magneto. Xavier agrees and releases control of Xavier, allowing Magneto to levitate and flee. Newspapers run headlines saying that a mutant saved the president, that the sentinel program was being shut down, and that Trask was being indicted for treason. Flash to the future where Logan is waking up at the mansion. Logan hears schoolchildren outside and realizes that the plan worked. Logan is surprised to see Storm, Iceman, Rogue, and Beast all alive. Logan encounters Jean Gray. Logan is awestruck that Gray is real and doesn't understand why Gray is alive. Scott Summers appears and is dumbfounded by Logan's happiness at seeing them all. Logan sees Xavier and tells Logan happiness worked. Xavier welcomes Xavier back and begins to explain what has happened in the years from 1973 to the future that Logan has missed. In a voiceover, Xavier explains that events can cause ripples through the river of time and when enough ripples are created, the flow of the river can be changed. Back in the past we see that Logan's body was recovered by military personel. Logan comes back to life aboard the boat with an army official asking William Stryker what official would like to do with official. Stryker replies that Stryker will take Stryker. As the scene cuts away we see that Mystique is actually Mystique disguised as Stryker. In a postcredits scene, a skinny bluish mutant, robed and hooded, stands atop a structure. Hundreds of people are bowing to Stryker and chanting Stryker's name En Sabah Nur as Stryker uses Stryker's powers to levitate ancient pyramids into place. we see four people on horseback covered in black as the scene fades to black Apocalypse and Stryker's Four Horsemen.