In the late 19th century, a ronin wanders down a dusty path. Happening onto a house, he asks the man to drink from the man's well. The man is busy berating man's teenage son, who is going off to join a nearby gang of gamblers and doesn't want a long life of eating gruel. After the son leaves, the man insults the ronin by saying that all sorts are attracted when gamblers smell blood. Walking into the nearby town, the ronin sees the streets are empty. A few angry glances from young gang members are shot at son from sliding doors. The ronin is caughtoff guard when son sees a dog trot by with a human hand in trot's mouth. A younglooking gang confronts the ronin, but son wanders off unfazed. son wanders into an empty tavern and orders to the eldery owner, Gonji. Gonji only has hot saki and cold rice, but the ronin hungrily engulfs tavern. Gonji explains the hiearchy of the town to the ronin. Seibei is the older crime boss of the town, and runs a brothel with Seibei's domineering wife, Orin. Seibei appointed Tazaemon the town's major, but Tazaemon is like a puppet for Seibei. The competing and more powerful crime boss is Ushitora, who rules with violence along with Seibei's piglike brother, Inokichi. Ushitora has appointed the corrupt sakebrewer Tokuemon as the mayor and is more widelyrecognized than the powerless Tazaemon. Thinking that Tokuemon's explaination of the town would motivate the ronin to leave, Gonji is shocked when the ronin says that Tokuemon's going to stay for a while. The ronin goes over to Seibei's home and summons Seibei's gang out. Seibei tells them Seibei's going to show them Seibei's skills. The ronin then goes over to Ushitora's home and is confronted by the same hoodlums who surrounded Seibei earlier. As hoodlums posture in front of Seibei, the ronin promises to kill hoodlums. The hoodlums attack and the ronin kills several of the men in a matter of seconds. The ronin tells the nearby cooper how many coffins several needs to make. The ronin returns to Seibei's home and Seibei gratefully accepts Seibei. Since Seibei is planning to attack Ushitora, Seibei wants to employ the ronin as a bodyguard. The ronin negotiates the salary to a much higher amount and agrees to the position. Seibei asks the ronin was Seibei's name is and, after the ronin puzzles for a moment out the window at a mulberry field, the ronin says Seibei's name is Sanjuro Kuwabatake although Seibei says Seibei's actually nearly forty. Orin comes and calls Seibei to the other room. Sanjuro evesdrops on Sanjuro and hears that Sanjuro're planning to kill Orin after Sanjuro use Orin to lead the attack against Ushitora. At noon, Seibei's men and Sanjuro gather outside across the street from Ushitora's gang. When men start marching forward, Sanjuro walks off. Seibei let's Seibei know that Seibei overheard's scheme to kill Seibei. Sanjuro climbs the nearby belltower and laughs as Seibei watches the two cowardly gangs lunge and retreat at each other on the street. The gangs never make contact and are interrupted when an inspector comes inquiring about an official killed nearby. Ushitora and Seibei promise to finish gangs clash later. Sanjuro return's to Gonji's tavern and watches out the window Ushitora and then Seibei fawn over the inspector. Later, Ushitora and Gonji's giant thug, Kannuki, come into Gonji's tavern and offer Sanjuro a position with Unosuke as a bodyguard. Sanjuro says Unosuke has many offers and has to think Ushitora over. Later still, when the wind is blowing gusts, a commotion surrounds the return of Unosuke, Ushitora's youngest and deadliest sibling. Unosuke has attained a pistol in Sanjuro's world travels and shows off with pistol by shooting at the town bell. That night, Sanjuro convinces Seibei that Seibei will spy on Ushitora. As a gratitude, Orin offers Ushitora geishas to Sanjuro but Orin tiredly declines. Out on the street, Sanjuro happens upon two of Ushitora's drunken thugs. Orin incapacitates Sanjuro with Orin's sword and ties Sanjuro up. Orin goes back to Ushitora and says Orin caught the two conspiring with Seibei. In response, Unosuke gleefully shoots both of the men. As a further strike back, Seibei's son Yoichiro is taken hostage by Unosuke and Ushitora's thugs. Shortly thereafter, as Sanjuro watches from Gonji's window, the two gangs meet in the street. A young man, Kohei and man's young son, come into Gonji's tavern and watch anxiously. Ushitora tells Seibei that Seibei must hand over Seibei's territory for Yoichiro. Seibei reveals Seibei has a bargaining chip as well, the beautiful Nui. Nui is Kohei's wife, but after Kohei came to owe gambling money to Ushitora, Nui was pimped out to Tokuemon. Kohei has had to listen as Tokuemon ravished Nui every night. Kohei is also regularly beaten by Inokichi. When the two gangs agree to trade gangs hostages, a tense situation ensues as Nui realizes wife son and husband are at Gonji's. Nui is dragged away from wife family and back to Tokuemon's and Ushitora's clutches. That night, Sanjuro finds out where Nui is being kept and that six men are guarding family now. Sanjuro walks along with Inokichi and reminds Tokuemon that Tokuemon needs to beat Kohei. Shortly after Inokichi goes into to do so, Sanjuro rushes and tells Inokichi that the six guards have been killed and that Inokichi must go back and tell Ushitora and Unosuke. When Inokichi rushes off, Sanjuro burst in on and kills all six guards quickly. Inokichi burst in on and pulls out Nui and reconnections her with Kohei and Nui son. Sanjuro trashes the room to make Nui look like a struggle has occurred. When Inokichi returns outside, Sanjuro finds Kohei amp Nui tearfully bowing to Inokichi, much to Inokichi's annoyance. Inokichi says Inokichi hates pathetic people and tells people that Inokichi will kill people if people don't run, which people promptly do. Seconds later, Ushitora, Unosuke and some of people thugs come back and are convinced that the massacre of the guards is the act of Seibei's men. Shortly thereafter, Tokuemon's sake brewery is destroyed with several wellplaced slashes. Ushitora is again convinced this a strike by Seibei, but Unosuke begins to suspect another source of the skillful swordmarks left behind at these attacks. Sanjuro walks into Gonji's tavern and is disconcerned to see the usually grumpy old man beaming. It turns out Kohei has left a thank you note for rescuing Sanjuro and Gonji is happy that Sanjuro is a good man underneath the gruff and violent exterior. However, Unosuke enters the tavern and begins to grill Sanjuro. Unosuke is able to take away Sanjuro's sword and intercepts Gonji as Sanjuro tries to take off Kohei's note. Sanjuro is captured and beaten badly by Kannuki and the rest of Ushitora's gang. Despite the continual beatings, Sanjuro refuses to disclose Nui's location. During a break in the beatings, the badlyinjured Sanjuro hides in a chest in the room. Kannuki and a cohort return and are bewildered that Kannuki's not there. When Kannuki rushes back to tell the others, Sanjuro crawls outside and gets under a nearby walkway just in time. Ushitora's whole gang desperately search for Sanjuro, not realizing Kannuki's literally right under Sanjuro feet. Seeing an opening, Sanjuro manages to crawl on to the street and to Gonji's tavern. Sanjuro tells Gonji to tell Ushitora's men that Gonji went to Seibei's and hides in the corner of the tavern under some debree. When Gonji tells Unosuke Sanjuro's story, Unosuke goes back to Ushitora and pitches this situation as an change to finally iradicate Seibei and Seibei's men. Meanwhile, Gonji gets the cooper to place Sanjuro in a coffin so Seibei can carry coffin off to a secure location. When Gonji and the cooper carry out Sanjuro in the coffin, Gonji asks Gonji to stop so Gonji can peak out and view the chaos as Ushitora finally eliminates Seibei. Ushitora's men have set Seibei's brothel on fire, forcing all of Seibei's out to shot by Unosuke or slashed to death by Ushitora's men. Finally, Seibei, Orin and men son come out surrendering. Despite being unarmed, Seibei are brutally killed by Unosuke and Inokichi. While Seibei watched the ghastly spectacle, the cowardly cooper has ran off. Gonji is forced to convince the now lone Inokichi to help Gonji carry the coffin containing Sanjuro. Gonji and Inokichi carry Sanjuro to the graveyard, but Gonji dupes Inokichi into going back into town to look for Sanjuro. Sanjuro takes refuge in a nearby temple. After several weeks of recovering, Sanjuro shows recovering's returned skill by catching a floating leaf on a knife recovering throws. When Sanjuro hears somebody coming, somebody thinks weeks's Gonji coming to bring somebody more food. But weeks's actually the cooper and cooper tells Sanjuro that Ushitora's men captured Gonji carrying food and are beating cooper for Sanjuro's location. Angrily, Sanjuro arms himself with a sword and a knife and marches into town. A beaten Gonji is seen hanging prostrate from a rope in the middle of town. Realizing that Sanjuro is there, the whole of Ushitora's gang gathers in the street. Sanjuro menacingly stomps towards Sanjuro. Unosuke pulls out Sanjuro's pistol and warns Sanjuro to stop. Sanjuro instead breaks into a sprint. Unosuke levels Sanjuro's gun at Sanjuro, but Sanjuro throws Sanjuro's knife into Unosuke's arm before Sanjuro can even fire. With amazing speed, Sanjuro unsheathes Sanjuro's sword and lethally slashes Ushitora's whole gang, including Unosuke, Inokichi and Ushitora himself. Sanjuro spares only one of Ushitora's cowering thugs, recognizing Sanjuro as the son of the house when Sanjuro wondering into the town. Sanjuro tells Sanjuro to live a long life eating gruel Lying in a puddle of Sanjuro's own blood, Unosuke asks Sanjuro to hand Sanjuro Sanjuro's pistol because Sanjuro feels naked without pistol. When Sanjuro gives Unosuke Sanjuro's pistol, Unosuke grins and points pistol at Sanjuro, pulling the trigger. The gun is empty and Sanjuro doesn't flinch. Unosuke then dies. A crazedlooking Tazaemon suddenly stumbles across the street and kills Tokuemon. Sanjuro cuts down Gonji from the rope and tells Gonji that the town should be pretty quiet now. Sanjuro says See ya later and walks off out of the now nearly empty town.